# The Only LinkedIn Content Strategy You Need in 2025

URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vcFh5-fynHc
Collected: 2026-06-20

---

In this video training, I'll be breaking down the exact LinkedIn content strategy I've used to generate over a million dollars in revenue for my own business over the past year in the same content strategy that's been responsible for over millions in revenue for over 50 different founders. This is all without having to spam DMs, chase down bad fit clients, or even spend a dime on LinkedIn ads. And by the end of this video, you'll have a full content blueprint and system that you could use to consistently generate content that positions you as a real authority, attracts great fit clients to your business, and at the end of the day, helps you grow your company faster. And look, you probably already know that LinkedIn is the single best content platform for B2B companies to get leads. You already see all the other founders winning with LinkedIn content. Adam Robinson scaled his latest business from 0 to $5 million in 13 months using LinkedIn content. Austin Hughes and Unifi generate millions in pipeline from the platform every single month. Michelle Leeban built his agency past $4 million in ARR off the back of LinkedIn content. The list goes on. Yet, you're still here stuck, not sure what to do. You have no idea how to come up with compelling content ideas that attract your ICP. And even if you do have ideas, you can't find the time to actually sit down and produce this stuff, you're stuck in meetings, putting out fires, and by the time you actually take a seat to write your LinkedIn content, you're creatively burnt out, and nothing good comes of it. The solution to both of these problems is to have a proper system. And getting right into it, the first part to the system is understanding where to post. You've already established that LinkedIn is the platform you'll post on, but a lot of people post from their company account and they hit a dead end. In reality, you want to be posting from your account as the founder because personal accounts just get a lot more reach and engagement. Think about your own content consumption behavior when you're scrolling the social media timeline, whether it be on LinkedIn, Twitter, YouTube, you name it. You're likely engaging with influencers and thought leaders, not faceless corporate accounts. Now, what do you actually post from your personal account to grow your audience and fill it with ideal customers that ultimately want to pay you and sign up for your product? So, the first part to it is going to be nailing your account positioning. So, what's the one reason why someone in your target audience will follow you? Again, think about your own content consumption behavior. When you think to all the people you follow and consistently engage with on social, you can likely summarize in one sentence why you follow them. This is the golden question. What's the one reason why someone in your target audience should follow you on LinkedIn? If you can't answer this question in one sentence like you can for others, you have a lot more work to do. Look, your goal is to become your ICP's favorite follow on LinkedIn. That they have only 5 minutes to log on and scroll the platform. You want to make sure that they are going out of their way to see your content because they find it so valuable. And the first way you do this is by being very specific in the value that you provide to your audience. The second layer to this system is you want to find content market fit. A lot of people can actually build a large audience on LinkedIn, but it's very fluffy and it doesn't translate into business outcomes. You've seen those people that have 10,000, 20,000, 50,000 followers, but struggle to actually make a living or build a business off the back of that. It sounds crazy, but it happens. You avoid this dead end by finding content market fit. So, when you're thinking about your content topics, run these three questions through your mind. What do you have expertise in? What does your target audience care about? And what's relevant to your product? You can view this like a three-part ven diagram. And at the middle is where you want to be with your content in that sweet spot. Now, as an example here, I want to use Adam Robinson. He's a great example of both doing it wrong and correcting this and doing it right. So, Adam was an early client of my agency. I remember sitting in my office convincing him to post on LinkedIn. When we first started posting, he had retention.com and he was selling into direct toconsumer founders. The tricky part was Adam was not a direct to consumer founder. He didn't have any experience as an operator in that field. So he was struggling a bit to find topics and stories that resonated with that target customer. But what we found was when he posted content about growing a SAS company, that content consistently went viral because Adam, prior to doing retention.com, also had another 8 figureure exit, he built retention to at the time it was $12 million in ARR. Now it's over $20 million in ARR. So the guy knows what he's doing when it comes to SAS growth. So version one of Adam's content strategy was missing that credibility piece. And the content that did do well was missing the relevance component. the SAS content wasn't really relevant to direct to consumer founders. So yes, it grew his audience on LinkedIn, but it didn't really attract customers. Now, fast forward to today, Adam started a second company called RB2B, which is pretty much the B2B version of Retention.com. Similar product just for a B2B SAS audience. And now he's crushing because he has very obvious content market fit across all three categories. He has credibility because he's targeting SAS founders. He has plenty of SAS experiences and stories to draw upon. the building and public content is relevant to the product because again he's targeting SAS founders now and the content is deeply interesting to that target audience. Now the next step here once you have a topic that gives you clear content market fit is to establish your content pillars. So what are you going to be consistently posting about? This is going a step deeper right? So answering the golden question is very high level very broad but specifically what are your posts going to be about on a daily and weekly basis. And really there are three simple pillars that you'll want to rely on here. The first one's going to be your industry thought leadership and points of view. Doing this type of content well is a magnet for customers. Your goal with this type of content, which is very middle of funnel, is to establish yourself as the audience's go-to resource in your specific category. You don't want to pitch your product in every one of your posts. This is more about thought leadership and establishing you as an authority than it is about pitch slapping your audience at every opportunity. So, this post from Adam is a perfect example of an industry point of view done well. It's 2025. If you're a SAS founder, you're probably screwed. Anything you do that works is getting copied. Pack is up, LTV is down. Here are the seven things I see that are working in a world where most things are not. So, Adam is giving a very clearly defined almost polarizing point of view. And Adam does this really well. I've called it out in a few of my videos now. Leaning into negativity bias in those hooks is a great way to trigger that evolutionary wiring in human brains and get them interested in your content. Notice how this establishes Adam as a thought leader in SAS growth. But he's not pitching RB2B. He's not saying, "Hey, by the way, sign up for my product." Or also item number six on the list, using website identification, which is the product he's selling. The sole goal of this post is to provide real value and build trust with his ICP. Now, the second pillar of content is hiring and recruiting content. Content isn't just for attracting customers. If you're a founder, you know that recruiting and getting the best possible talent on your team is super important. And you could use your LinkedIn account to do this as well. Content done right can be a magnet for A+ talent. So, I've been doing this a lot lately. I'm trying to hire content writers for my content agency. And one way I'll do this is by sharing insights into our culture, how I approach hiring. And what I want to do is use this content as a filter for the right people. So here's an example of a simple post I did. It's just text only, long form text only. And I write about the lessons that I learned about hiring over the past 2 years of building my agency. So one, this post is valuable for other business owners and founders. So it is kind of still speaking to my ICP. It's also broadcasting loud and clear what our values are as a company, what I look for in hires, how I approach this. So, if someone reads this and thinks, "Oh, I like the way this guy thinks," they're going to be more likely to apply and be a great fit. Simultaneously, it's also going to repel people who are not great fit. So, if someone reads this line, lesson one, hold unreasonably high expectations, but provide enough resources and direction to make them reasonable. If someone reads that and thinks, "Ugh, like unreasonably high expectations, that sounds too hard. Sounds like hustle culture. I don't want to work there." Amazing. The content did its job. So, if hiring and recruiting is a priority for you, I'd recommend including one of these types of posts every single week so you have a consistent drum beat of recruiting material going out. The third content pillar I'd recommend is founder story content. And this is multi-purpose. This can be great for attracting customers. So, if you talk about a dinner that you were at last week with someone in your ICP and trends that you're hearing from leaders in your industry, that's an example of a post that could do really well. But this can also be helpful for recruiting and it can be helpful for investment opportunities and attracting capital if you're trying to raise in the next month or two. So this building in public style of content works really well when founders are your ICP. So if you're selling to other founders and again if you're trying to manufacture this hype around your company to get access to investment and capital. Here's an example of one of those from Austin Hughes at Unifi. He's made this post about how they're moving out of their 2,500 ft² office in SF. This is sort of a sentimental founder story post, but if you read between the lines, the fact that they're moving out of their office and into a bigger one signals company growth. So, one, this is great for recruiting if people want to work at a growing startup. And two, it's great for investors to see, oh shoot, Unifi is growing quickly, their team's expanding, it's probably a sign that they're growing nicely as a company. Another founder, Tyler Denk at Beehive, reported that because he was posting his content online and building it public, he was able to raise a $2.6 $6 million seed round in just 7 days. That's insane. And content was the fuel behind that. And look, you'll want to adjust the ratios of each different type of content depending on your goals. If your main goal is lead generation, which is the case for most founders that I talked to, you'll likely want to lean very heavy into middle of funnel industry thought leadership and specifically thought leadership that is somewhat polarizing. You don't want safe, sterile takes. You want an actual opinion that you and your company hold that is different from your competitors. And if your goal is to generate hype for investment, you might want to lean more into building in public and sharing company stories and sharing some metrics and really painting this picture of growth. And again, if your goal is recruiting, then you'll probably post more content about employee stories, your culture and values, stuff that would be more of a magnet for that type of audience. It's just really important that you're playing the right game. I talked to so many founders who have grown this audience on LinkedIn and have a lot of followers. They get a lot of impressions, but they're struggling to use this alchemy to turn that attention into actual leads or whatever their goal outcome is because their goals are misaligned with the content that they're publishing. Now that we have your positioning and your content pillars taken care of, let's talk about formats. How do you package that content and those pillars in a way that's going to maximize distribution in the LinkedIn algorithm? The good news is it's not that complicated. Right now on LinkedIn, the performance across formats is pretty well balanced. You see video content doing well. You see textonly content doing well. Carousels and graphics still do well. There really is no single format. That's a cheat code. But there are some nuances to consider. At a high level, I would recommend leaning most into the formats that you enjoy. So if you're a writer, go with long form text content. If you are better on video, like I am right here, then you'll want to go with more short form video. If you think more visually and that content is more appealing to you, do more graphics or carousels. Picking content formats you enjoy will keep you consistent for longer. The less you have to feel like you're grinding to stay consistent. Again, the longer you're going to stay consistent. And when you stay consistent for long enough, that's how you see the compounding effects of social. Assuming you're consistent, there are some nuances to consider. LinkedIn is pushing video pretty heavily. Right now, later last year in Q4, video was a massive arbitrage. You could post a half decent video and get 500,000 views or a million views pretty damn easily. The content bar was very low. It seems like LinkedIn has dialed this back, but from what I can tell, they're still pushing video heavily. Every time I go on the timeline right now and I see a promoted post, there's a good chance it's coming from LinkedIn directly pushing video as a channel. I saw one recently that said LinkedIn is pushing video two times more than other formats. The second specific content format I'm seeing perform really well right now is long- form in-depth text posts. When you create these, you want to think in the framework of, is this post so valuable that my target audience is going to copy the link and share it in a Slack group with their co-workers? I call this thinking in Slack groups. Here's an example of what that looks like in practice. So, notice how this post is very long form and in-depth, and I'm sharing specific frameworks that someone can save from this post and use right away. A lot of times founders and just people posting on LinkedIn in general will keep their post very broad and high level and they're not wrong, they are kind of valuable, but they're too vague to be actionable for an audience. What you want to do with these long form text posts is make them so specific that someone can go and take action from your post in the next hour and see some sort of result. So with this post here, I shared a few different content templates. So if someone reads this and is inspired like, oh, I'm going to share my origin story. They could go write that up in the next 30 minutes and see direct value from my content. And when they see value from my content, that builds trust with me. And then they're going to come back to my content more and more because they trust me so much. And eventually when they need LinkedIn content services, they're going to come to my agency because I planted that seed so deeply into their mind. So with formats pretty well balanced right now, but if I had to pick two to double down on, I'd alternate between short form video and then long form in-depth text post. Now let's talk cadence and timing. How often should you post? And is there an ideal time of day to publish your content on LinkedIn? I've got a simple recommendation here. Post once per day. You can go up to twice per day or even more. I've seen some folks posting three or four times a day on LinkedIn. But from my experience, especially if you're doing this on your own or with a limited team, you're not going to be able to keep the quality output high if you're going beyond two posts per day or one post per day. So, this nets out to five posts per week if you're posting daily, Monday through Friday. If you feel more comfortable with content production, you can scale this up to seven posts per week. every single day on weekends as well. And if you're feeling a bit overwhelmed with five, that feels like a lot to you right now, scale it down to three times per week. That's sufficient. I wouldn't go below three times per week if your goal is to generate leads from LinkedIn. It's just not consistent enough. The ideal time for posting is midm morning in your time zone. Now, if you're posting at any point during work hours, you're probably fine. I don't want you to overthink this. I just wouldn't go ahead and post at midnight, for example, or posting at 8:00 p.m. on a Saturday. You're probably not going to get a whole lot of engagement from anyone other than psychos who are scrolling LinkedIn on a Saturday evening. For all of our clients, we post between 9 and 11:00 a.m. Now, once you're consistently posting content, you want to make sure your profile is set up to convert that traffic that you're going to get through your amazing content, following the advice in this video. Convert those eyeballs into followers and eventually customers. And the way you do this is by thinking about your LinkedIn profile as if it's a landing page. You know how companies will run paid ads to a landing page? And typically, it works better when the landing page is very optimized. The headlines on point, the hero section's on point, the bullets are on point. You got testimonials, social group, all the stuff is hyper optimized to take that person who lands on the page and turn them into an email subscriber or a customer. Take the same approach with your LinkedIn profile. Here's a simple checklist to make that happen. First of all, nail your profile picture. Don't overthink this. Just make it clear. Go shoulders up, zoomed in enough to see your face as someone scrolling the timeline. Don't overthink this header. You can do a nice branded one. I just have this one here. I don't find it makes that much of a difference. Do what you want there. After you have that, you want to go to your headline. A simple formula for this is role company and then a simple oneliner answering that golden question. So a simple oneliner communicating the value that your profile provides. For me, I have CEO at Compound, co-founder of Bluecast, building a social media agency for B2B companies. So if someone's interested in social media growth as a B2B company or founder, they're going to follow me. You also want to have your link in bio set up. I have mine going to my newsletter. That's the next obvious step in my funnel. So think about what the next obvious step in your funnel is. If you have an email list, you can go there. If you just want to send people to a book, a demo page, that's fine as well, or even just to your homepage. But have a next step and set that as your link in bio. You'll also want to write up a simple about section. You don't need to write a novel here. Keep it short and sweet. Make it clear what you do, who you do it for. Add some social proof. Like, for example, I write how we've helped over 50 earlystage founders launch and scale founder content in the past one and a half years. Next up, your featured links. These are super underrated and one of my favorite features on LinkedIn. So, what you can do is pick one to two links to feature on your profile. You can do more than this. I wouldn't recommend going beyond two. Think about it like when you go to a restaurant and you look at the menu. If you're at the Cheesecake Factory, you get like 120 different menu items. It's very overwhelming, confusing. You don't know what to get. When you go to a restaurant that has five menu items, they make that choice easy for you. In this case, I want you to give your audience two simple choices or even one if you just want to keep it even more simple. What I'd recommend is go to your lead magnet. So, in my case, that's my Social Files newsletter. and then go to your homepage or book a demo. You can also add a case study as some social proof if you'd like, but I'd recommend keeping yourself the two featured links max. Last thing on profile setup is to make sure your custom button is set up. So, you can also have a link that shows up underneath your headline on the timeline. So, as people are scrolling, they can actually see this button and they can click to your call to action without having to click to your profile. This drastically reduces the friction. And how you set this up, very easy. Just go to edit your profile and go down to premium custom button. Click edit custom button and then I have mine as my newsletter by the way. Sign up for that if you want. It's free. Tons of free resources there. Once you have that link in, click done and you're good to go. Now that custom button shows up by every single post. Now let's move on to one of the most important parts of actually seeing results from LinkedIn. A lot of people mess this up and that's staying consistent. We just ran through the entire content strategy, but the problem a lot of founders face is they see that, they understand that, but they don't actually go and implement it for long enough to see results. The honest truth is between us is that if you can't commit more than six months to posting consistently on social, you do not deserve to have an audience and you do not deserve to build a business off of social content. So, what I want to run you through next is simple systems for staying consistent. It doesn't have to be that hard. The first piece of advice I have for you is to consistently commit 60 minutes per day to writing, research, and content. Think of writing content like going to the gym. When you first start going to the gym, you're not going to be able to lift heavy. Your endurance is going to suck. You're going to feel overwhelmed and you're going to feel like you suck at fitness. You're going to second guess why you even walked into the building in the first place and every ounce of your being is going to want to quit. Content feels the same way. When you first start writing, writing a single LinkedIn post might take you 3 hours and you're like, "Oh my gosh, I suck at writing. I'm terrible at this. Should I even be doing this? I see everyone else doing this and it looks so much easier to them. Like, am I made for this?" But back to the gym analogy. As you consistently show up, you get stronger. your endurance improves and suddenly the way that used to feel very heavy doesn't feel heavy anymore. Same thing happens with your writing. As you write consistently, you can write faster. You write better quality work. And that post that took you 3 hours to write might only take you half an hour now. I can sit down and write a LinkedIn post from start to finish in 10 minutes if I have to. Really, I could do it in five if I really had to. But that wasn't the case on day one. And the single most important thing for you to understand is that writing is a skill that takes time. There are not many great writers on this earth. It is a rare skill. So, for you to expect to sit down on day one and be a pro at it is kind of silly. And if you do nothing else but carve out 60 minutes of your calendar every day to really improve this skill, you will be so far ahead of all of your competitors 6 months in, a year in. I've been writing for 7 years consistently and it has changed my life. And to this day, every single morning, that first hour after I wake up, I spend writing. The second pro tip here for improving your consistency, which is a little bit less fluffy and more tactical, is using AI tools to speed up your workflow and create more output in less time. Similarly, when you use AI tools to write your copy, you don't just turn into a master writer like David Oglevie. You still need to give these tools great input and you still need to commit the time to learning the tools and learning the craft of writing itself. But just like steroids help you gain muscle faster paired with consistent training, AI tools can help you create better content faster, paired with that consistent writing habit. Now, my go-to AI model for writing and editing feedback is using Claude. Right now, I use 3.7. And I don't really like to use it to draft my content, but I like to use it to point me in the right direction of what ideas I should write about, and it gets the wheels turning and really makes it impossible to get stuck in writer's block. I'll toss one of my favorite prompts up on the screen right now for you to screenshot. Another tool I love using for drafting and repurposing is Bluecast. So, this tool makes repurposing content from a YouTube video or blog into a LinkedIn post insanely easy. So, if I go to the YouTube to LinkedIn repurposing template, all I have to do is just paste in this YouTube URL. I'll select my writing style in one to two clicks and then just click generate. And now I have a full draft in my exact tone of voice. And the cool thing I like about Bluecast is that you can toggle between writing styles emulating specific creators very easily. So, this isn't my writing style. It's actually pretty accurate. If I want to switch this over to Adam Robinson, I can just do that in a simple click. Click generate again. And now I've got another draft, this time in Adam Robinson's exact tone of voice. So, if you're a newer writer still trying to find your tone and writing style, emulating others can be a great place to start. And BlueCast makes it very easy. Also, another feature I love which is super helpful if I don't feel like sitting down and actually writing a post and I want to speak it out loud is going to the audio repurposing feature and just recording a voice memo here. So, I can just record a voice memo and it'll turn it into a post just like that workflow we just ran through and I don't have to write a word. Now, bonus tip for consistency and the elites don't want you to know this, but you can literally repost your old content. If you have a post that does well and a month, two months, three months have passed, you can go back, copy paste that post, and publish it again, and it will likely do just as well, if not better. I've done that several times, both when I'm in a hurry and I don't have time to write or if I just know, hey, this content did really well. Let me go ahead and repurpose it. By the way, real quick, if you want more of my LinkedIn growth frameworks, I write about them every single week in my newsletter, Social Files. Every Monday, I send an in-depth playbook with content strategies, examples, playbooks that you could use and steal right away to grow faster and make better content. So, it's totally free. I'll drop that link in the description below. Now, why does this system work so well? What's the secret behind founder content on LinkedIn? And the truth is, most social media users follow and engage with influencers and thought leaders. Again, think about your own behavior. You don't go on Twitter and engage with corporate accounts. You don't go on Instagram, follow some faceless company. The same behavior applies on LinkedIn. People want to engage with other people. If you look at Zoom Info, a massive company in the B2B space, check out the engagement on one of their company posts. So, they have over 220,000 followers. And this company post only got 13 engagements for reposts, likely many of which were from team members or people in their company. Now, if we go over to their founders profile, Henry, their CEO and founder, has just over 75,000 followers on LinkedIn. If you look at this post about their public listing on NASDAQ, it has almost a thousand likes, 62 comments, 19 reposts. And these comments are from genuine people. And it's just such a massive contrast from that and the company page. This trend plays out time and time and time again. And you can either fight against it or lean into it and make your growth and marketing easier. When I'm thinking about content strategy, I'm always looking for the strategies and the platforms with the lowest effort required that provide the highest return. It's just common sense. And right now, LinkedIn content, specifically founderled content, is the most obvious platform and channel for B2B companies. If that were to change, I'd be the first to try out a new platform. But right now, and it has been the case for the past year or two, this channel is a no-brainer. Now, I want you to do not use this approach because although it's fantastic, it's not perfect, it's not a magic cure all or a silver bullet, there are situations where founderled content doesn't really work as well and some companies that it doesn't really work great for. There are really only a few situations where this is the case and it is rare. So, one is if your target audience legitimately isn't on LinkedIn. This can happen, but if you're a B2B startup, odds are your audience is on the platform. The second reason why this wouldn't work is if you're just looking for quick growth hacks. By following the strategy I lay out in this video, you will grow faster on LinkedIn. I'm not denying that. But it will still take time and commitment, hours every week for months on end. You need to be prepared to spend at least 3 to 6 months on the channel before seeing any real return. Most people aren't willing to stomach that and that's why most people and most companies will not see benefit from LinkedIn. But if you're able to commit, you have a chance at unlocking a serious competitive advantage for your company in today's environment. And the third situation where I just see this not work very well is if you genuinely hate content production. No matter how much I try to convince you, show you the data, show you the examples, if you don't like producing content, you will not stay consistent with it for long enough. This playbook is only going to work if there's a genuine desire and interest from you as the founder to get better at writing, to get better on camera, to show up and give your content team input when needed. And I wish there was a way around this, but if you look at all the CEOs and founders who win with content, they all care. Again, to bring this back to the fitness analogy, the person who genuinely enjoys going to the gym and likes getting the workout in every day is going to beat the person who just shows up out of spite because they want to get in shape, but they don't actually like lifting. They don't enjoy the process of going to the gym and getting the workouts done. that person is going to fall off. The latter, the former who's doing it for the sake of the process itself is going to stay consistent for 5 years, 10 years, 15 years, the entire rest of their life, and they're going to be in such better shape. You don't want to chase this goal out of spite. It's not going to work. Now, the focus of this video was obviously building a content strategy. But if you're brand new to LinkedIn and you really just need a simple guide for getting started, click here to the next video on the screen where I walk you through a super simple three-step process for standing up your LinkedIn account. pretty much everything I would do if I was starting over from scratch on LinkedIn this year. It's great for total beginners. So, you can pretty much just steal that and copy it for yourself. No gatekeeping. I'll see you over there and good luck.
