# Is The Classic GTM Playbook Really Dead? with SaaStr CEO and Founder Jason Lemkin

URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RZYUn_ExLBY
Collected: 2026-06-20

---

But here's the funny thing, guys. If you look at who is running go to market at some of the hottest AI companies from OpenAI to anthropic on down, you'll see folks that spoke at Saster in the past few years, you will see the exact same people essentially running the same playbooks they ran before the AI explosion. Now, not identical. There are differences and we're going to chat about it, but literally they're the same people running somewhat upgraded versions of what worked. So, here's my tough love message. A lot of things are not working quite as well as they did. Some things are working better. It's not that simple. We'll go through it. But if you think things are dead or if folks on your team are saying it's dead or you hear mumbles in the hallway that it's dead, I think it's you. I think it's you because just about everybody that is tapping into AI budget is reacelerating.

Good morning everybody. Welcome to Saster AAI Live. I wanted to do something hopefully brief and specific but then open it up to any questions you guys have on go to market sales and marketing today in the age of AI. And I really just wanted to hit on one thing. I'll give you a whole bunch of points around it, but one thing because I just I see a little bit less of this on LinkedIn than I did six months ago, but man, I see way too much that go to market is dead, that outbound doesn't work anymore, that SEO is dead, woe is me, that all this stuff just doesn't work in the old goto market toolkit. I would say last year was a little confusing for a variety of reasons that we'll get into. But here's the funny thing, guys. If you look at who is running go to market at some of the hottest AI companies from OpenAI to anthropic on down, you'll see folks that spoke at Saster in the past few years, you will see the exact same people essentially running the same playbooks they ran before the AI explosion. Now, not identical. There are differences and we're going to chat about it, but literally they're the same people running somewhat upgraded versions of what worked. So, here's my tough love message. A lot of things are not working quite as well as they did. Some things are working better. It's not that simple. We'll go through it. But if you think things are dead or if folks on your team are saying it's dead or you hear mumbles in the hallway that it's dead, I think it's you. I think it's you because just about everybody that is tapping into AI budget is reacelerating now. You can see it everywhere. Notion just said they're reacelerating at 500 million in AR as they launched their agents. Dialpad and talk to us have added nine figures of incremental AR from their AI agents this year. All this Nvidia open AI money is trickling down to vendors that supply them. Data Dog has accelerated because it sells to all those leaders because it does all of DevOps for Open AI. There's just so much trickle down from this insane spend in AI. The problem is you're not getting any of that spend. You're not getting into this spend. Others are and we'll go through it. So, is it dead? It's you. Okay.

We've done a bunch of workshop Wednesdays and others and we've got another post on this on Saser this week on how we're using our AISDR. Okay. And here's some data. Amelia put this together. But it almost doesn't matter what this says. This is us tuning up our AISDR. Yes, we replaced our human SDR team with an AI. Yes, we had to train it for a month. Yes, we have to train it for every day. But once we do it, it works. 206 leads to Saster from this from 5,216 messages. That's pretty good. 136 responses. So that's a pretty high direct connect rate and 52 positive. This is sending 5200 messages out and getting 52 folks that want to buy from us. Pretty good out of 5,200 leads. Really 52 out of 5,200 is pretty high. Are there challenges? A couple years ago, we were loading up a bunch of random purchase names into Salesoft and Outreach and Friends and just spamming everybody in the same cadences. And we all saw that decline well before the age of AI. With AI, it's worse because we're getting more of it. In fact, with AI is making more of more of it mediocre rather than terrible. It makes more of it mediocre. There's fewer typos, but it's still not very good. And yes, is that stuff performing worse? Yes. But send an email and add value to the customer. They're going to open it. It's not dead. Outbound is not dead. It's you and your team.

What about old school stuff like webinars and case studies? Man, those can't work. Well, here's anthropic and cursor partnering on a webinar to produce case studies. I mean, this stuff works. People discover you. They want social proof. They want to know who else is using your app. In fact, in many ways, all this stuff, in my experience, works better today than it did 18 to 24 months ago. Why? Well, we've seen a vendor explosion. I can't tell you how many times a day I get questions, which AISDR should I use again? And I'm always like, well, Google it. We did like 11 webinars on this. But I get it every day. And what is that? It's just a birth of new discovery. For years, our vendors were kind of fixed. Oh, should I do Salesforce or HubSpot for CRM? And should I use Zoom Info or Apollo? Now there's a hundred AI fueled vendors and a lot of them are new. So people are doing more discovery than they have in our work lifetimes. And that's why this stuff helps because I want to know who else is using that app.

Brand. Why are all the AI leaders everywhere? Why does Amjad from Replet on Joe Rogan? Replet is in a brutally competitive space. There's so much competition. And again, when I'm deciding which product to use, I want constant reinforcement of who the winners are. Brand still matters. This stuff works. This is the go to market playbook. It may even be even more critical today when there's so much AI demand that we need more help making that decision quickly and maybe more important than it's ever been because there just aren't the same defaults.

Events still work. In fact, if you talk to a lot of marketers at faster growing tech companies today, they're actually quietly doubling down on events if they can get their teams to do them because they know it works being in person with prospects and customers. They know it works in an era of so many vendors and so much noise and so much confusion that connecting with people in person works better than ever.

Oh, SEO is dead. Well, let's slow down, guys. First of all, here's Sasser itself. I honestly don't know why, but our SEO is up, depending on where I look, 3x to 5x in the last 12 months. Okay, it's just up. Now is chatGPT and others also taking traffic away? Yes, both are happening. Both are happening and there's no question many leaders if you look at what G2 is saying — their SEO is down. Like parts of their SEO are down but it's not zero guys. I don't know anyone that had like great SEO that wrote some of the most canonical best content teaching you how to do something really important who a year ago millions of people are reading it and today it's zero. I just don't know anybody. So one it may not be down, two sure LLMs and chatgpt are taking some of that, but three it still works. So if somebody's telling you woe is me SEO is dead. It's just another excuse. It's you. You're not producing enough high quality content that the internet wants to hear what you have to say. Produce great content, it works.

Let me summarize it. One thing is clear. Crappy is working less good. Crappy is clearly working less good. Crappy outbound, we don't want it. Crappy PR. The low energy crap that still kind of worked a few years ago. The cloned boring campaigns. Low energy stuff, incredibly boring events with recycled speakers, boring digital events — it just doesn't work. So I definitely think running the same playbook from 2 or 3 years ago with less energy, you would think nothing works because that stuff doesn't work.

If you think something's not working, instead of complaining or giving up on it or investing less energy, what about making it awesome? Make it awesome. Audit. Just like we've said on Saster for the better part of a decade, you have to read your sales team's emails because they're probably terrible. Even today, they're terrible. Even with AI, they're probably terrible. Slow down and audit everything. Make it awesome.

The hottest AI B2B and AI startups are not running different playbooks but they are remixed. Almost if you look at most of the hottest AI fueled B2B companies many of them have a sales motion. There are plenty of sales folks at OpenAI, but many of them — the teams are often smaller, but it doesn't mean they're not working. It's just AI fueled.

And this is just the strongest demand in PLG we've ever had. They're just running PLG on steroids. They're trying to do everything, create some virality, create brand awareness, to keep the engine going, but if you can provide insane value with AI and B2B and you can get the word out, the demand may be insane. So that is different and fueling that demand is different, but it's ultimately deep down it's just PLG on steroids.

And again, my last challenge to you — go on LinkedIn and see who's their head of sales, who's their head of marketing. You're going to see folks that worked at Brex and Ripling and Ramp and DataDog. You're not going to see folks that have been doing AI since they were in grammar school. You're going to see folks — if you look at half of the top SAS executives that have presented at annual over the last decade, most of the best ones are still in the game, but many of them are at the hottest AI companies. So it's not like they've created an LLM on their own. They're running versions of the same playbook, but this PLG pull is insane.

What's the same but on steroids. What's not working and what's different. One — the demand for these high ROI products is insane. If you have that, the demand is like we've never seen before. Two — once you're at the CIO or even in a bigger company there's budget, but they want to hold the line on the efficiency budget in software. Even if there is any extra budget, it's all being taken up by price increases. If all your app is is an ROI calculator, if all it is is you're trying to show how to make the sales team 10% more efficient, that was the game in 2021, no one has any budget or interest in that today. Three — it just has to work. It just has to work. We're expecting magic upfront. The vendor has to do most of the work to train this app and to get huge ROI up front. No lame co-pilots. If you're wondering why your product isn't growing fast from the age of AI, you have a lame co-pilot that doesn't change the game almost on day zero.

Be honest. Everyone that has something good today in B2B that can tap into AI budgets — either they can tap direct like at the prosumer level where there's just end-user demand or they can tap into it at the CIO's budget because it provides that value. They're all getting lifts. If that's not you, it's almost too late, but it's not. Hit stop, hit pause, and figure out what's changing in your industry and tap into this budget.
