# How to master the Go-To-Market strategy - Maja Voje

URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3pfSupyJ2bo
Collected: 2026-06-20

---

Hello, I am Carla and I am the host of this podcast. Product marketing stories is the first French podcast dedicated to product marketing. Every week listen to an episode where product marketers but not only share methodologies, tips and concrete learnings so you can apply them in your daily job. The aim of this podcast is to make product marketing understandable and accessible to the French tech ecosystem. In this episode, I talk with Maya, go to market expert, about her journey from working in-house to building her own business and publishing a best-seller book, Go to Market Strategist. Together, we discuss about the real reason she decided to write a book, the biggest challenges she faced, what she would do differently if she had to start over, why she chose the solopreneur path, and the importance of showcasing your work because action speaks louder than anything else. Your voice matters. Your work matters and this episode might just inspire you to take action. Hi Maya, I'm so happy to be with you today on the podcast. How are you? Hey, hello Kola. Thank you so much for inviting me. It's my very first time to record like a podcast for French speaking audience. So hope to bring a couple of interesting insights to you guys. Can you uh present yourself to the French PM community? Uh yes, but not in French. So hi, my name is Maya Voya. For the last year or something like that, I have been very intensively talking about go to market. After launching my best-selling book, go to market strategies. Things have been wild. So, I have been around Europe uh working with a lot of companies from the US as well. And I'm just like tackling these problems how to get to product market fit and later on how to scale, how to grow your company. But the history behind is even more interesting. So I come from let's say growth growth hacking background and everybody told you that you need product market fit but nobody really told you how to get there. So I went on a mission. I locked myself in a house for a year did a bunch of research and just like reflecting on what was going on in my consulting career with the companies that I've been working with and voila here we go this is the blueprint now and so far so good. uh before writing this book and being um a consultant for go to market, what uh what was your experience? Did you already did go to market or did you do other experiences as well? Yeah, but I didn't know it was called that way. Yeah, whenever we had companies that were launching and preparing for launch, we kind of did this work, right? But we always had like marketing or early growth. We didn't have like the appropriate word for it. So I I was very happy to just like finally coined this expression. what are we doing when we are bringing new products and services to market? So that was like a mini epiphany. And how many companies have you been working with so far? I cannot tell you because otherwise you will calculate how old am I? That's not the objective. Yeah, but seriously like in my career I think that there have been like more than 700 who's counting. I mean if you have a multiple company workshops you know things uh pile up really quick. uh from the big ones I have been working with Heineken with buyer with Google and a couple of other like corporates but I don't know I was always just like this passion that had this passion from doing something with very small and creating this effect of magnitude so something really big so just this inception is something that I guess excites me as a person and with all the companies you've been working with do you see um some patterns even depending on the the domain is really different the context is different but at the end do you see patterns that are the same to go from zero to uh to the scale. Yeah, I mean this is a very meta exercise, right? So I really want to sound smart now, but in reality every company is very different. So for example, I was just talking with a guy who does product marketing at Schneider today. So Schneider are elevators, right? And it is just like this B2B project done through resellers and he's trying to do like go to market as a product marketer there. And I asked him what are your specific challenges and he literally said to me like we are talking about passengers in the elevators but in reality we are communicating to B2B audience. So like to people who are building buildings and something like that. So yes, just like this plurality of decision makers in a decision-m unit and like users and customers gets a little bit confusing but to its fundament I always think about value transfer right so a job of every company is to create value added and also to capture some of the value added back with pricing with packaging but nevertheless I do think that as long as we are focused on value and really in touch with our users what they are saying where they are how can we best serve their needs that the company will survive so that's kind of this common denominator that I see a lot in practice plus there are a couple of biases right because psychologically when you are building something it would be as you ask me like which is my favorite dog and I have two dogs so I can literally not select which is my favorite dog I love them both dearly same thing happens with products, right? So, sometimes it's very difficult to admit that maybe like the product that we vision needs some fixing or a little bit of a faceelift in messaging. These are difficult things to comprehend. But I think that us as a community that we are getting there and that we are evolving towards let's say more agile and feedback friendly environment. I would like to deep dive with you on the go to market topic which is uh your field of expertise and my first question for you is for you what is the vision of go to market what is it uh concretely so I like to think about this as a journey right and the journey starts with aligning a couple of elements I think there are six elements in go to market so there is market the research we have to do then we have the customer we have the product we have positioning We have pricing and we have just like finally what we call gotom market motion which is predictable and repeatable way how to bring customers to the product. But in reality many people see go to market as simply either like launch or that you are just like selecting the channel. So I had a client who said my goto market strategy is LinkedIn and I was like cool but nevertheless we should like focus on other elements as well. So yeah, it's very holistic and it's all about prioritization because if you really think about this right, every company is operating with limited resources and we are trying to just like do the best we can with the resources that we have at disposal plus with our knowledge of the market of the circumstances that we are in. So I always like to think that the strategy part of it is our intelligent response to circumstances to whatever is going on and as such go to market strategy is dynamic because we are learning all the time and environment is changing and based on that what is for you the the biggest challenges because as you said there is like six core elements and uh how do we work all these six during a specific amount of time uh we have limited resources we are not expert in all the six elements. So how do we manage it? This is such a good question Carl because in reality this is where things get extremely messy. Right? If you think about this like who's responsible for go to market in Decatlon? Is it brand manager? Is it product marketing? Who's responsible? It's more about product marketing but a co-ownership because we are working with the product we are working with the the brand the marketing to make this go to market live. It's more about the program marketing is the one who will be at the center to really uh coordinate all the all the different teams. I love this definition and I see more investors even recognizing the role of product marketing in the go-to market process. But often times when you are dealing with more technology companies there would be somebody like founder or product manager or just like whoever is a little bit more businessy uh being taken care of this go to market function as a company. So as such I mean go to market as a position it can exist but it can also be done as a team as you described as you mentioned or it can just like leave in a different function. What is the most important is that we start as soon as possible, right? So that we don't come in the situation when everything would be set and then they said to us like we now need 10,000 users when we launch. Good luck. Here's a product. Here's a pricing. Now make some magic happen. But that we can do research and support decision making in earlier stages of the process as well. The second thing is that it is really like a multiple player game. So when it comes to product, I mean product was for me the most difficult chapter to write. So I literally admitted that it is just like a black box for me because I am very familiar with value propositions and how to create like different use cases. This is my forte. But whenever it comes like to product road maps and product visions or something like that, it was just not my history. This is not something that I have been doing before. So therefore I personally needed a lot of help from product managers to tackle this chapter as well and as long as we communicate and we search for help in the areas where we are not the strongest I think that we are still on a very good predict to win. However something which is increasingly important especially in this economical times is pricing. So pricing in larger organizations it can be done like super secretively like with focus groups and market research agencies. Some of the companies are just like okay here's a price let's fingers crossed and hope for the best. So yeah pricing is something that uh in practice can be turn turned out to be very problematic. But other than that, I think that us as a community that we are gaining so much more understanding about positioning and messaging and the entire like let's say channel games. So go to market uh motions. Um I think this is being talked about a lot and you can get like really good information if you just like set yourself on an educational path. Usually there is also the confusion about go to market uh marketing plan uh growth strategy. What is your point of view about that? How does everything live between the go to market which is at the end a lot is not only about launch is about the the value proposition about how we will communicate about to who we will communicate and the marketing plan and everything. I like to think about this as okay in a company like business strategy is the main one right the business strategy goals that we are getting are just like our traffic light. This is how we are making decision. Then it depends really from one organization to another who is responsible for this type of planning and if you just like think about this from the product perspective like product life cycles those old diagrams I do think that go to market is fantastic discipline to consider whenever you have like early adopters and early majority but for the scaling and let's think about even like later stages when you are searching for additional product market fits on new markets with uh product extension or something like that. This knowledge can come super handy again but in the beginning it is absolutely essential. So where do we sit in a normal organization? It heavily depends. But I do think that just like business objectives are the ones that stick us together and create this single source of truth how we can align our functions in larger organizations like in the day-to-day job if uh for any company for you like the marketing plan goes into the the go to market which is the the global or is it something that is another topic? Yeah, it's another topic. Usually we like to keep our distance to have this operation a little bit more independent. So maybe just like it will be easier to explain through an example. Recently I was working with a corporate in the fastmoving consumer space and it was just like super interesting because okay they have like this large business objective right so they need to like do at least like $1 billion in a certain business unit. So okay this is like single source of truth for everybody. Then they have like different brands and each brand like has to do their marketing plans as like a brand business unit. This is very important. But when they are launching new products and opening new markets, the go-to market function in that specific instance is under the brand management and it is supported by digital management who lit digital marketing who literally supports multiple um brand units but it depends from organization to organization. So how do you do it at datlom? Come on I'm curious as well here to learn. It's interesting because it's it can be very different depending on for which product you're working and for example for in my case I'm working for the outdoor app and we have a specific marketing team a specific product team I'm the product marketing so I'm um between the both um and we try to really combine the the go to market for I don't know what there is a new feature or we want to uh to target a new a new market we will integrate create like the marketing plan within the go to market which is more at the end. Once we have defined who is the target um what is the the strategy, what is the positioning, the key messages, then we see the marketing plan as how are we going to go to market uh from a marketing and communication point of view. So which channels are we going to use, how when and this this is part of our marketing plan which is in like the global go to market which is integrated in it. for example. Super interesting and this was just like the same type of logic that the Schneider guys were explaining in the morning. However, what we are trying to do and this is like our secret agenda in organization is to get into the process sooner. Why? Because if the research customer research is for example done like as a focus group research with marketing agencies and your users are like heavily online, you are missing a bunch of insights, right? So yes, traditionally we would hop in and just like this channel selection how to plan for a massive launch thingies but we are trying to find our role even sooner because at least with insights I think that we can participate so much and traditionally I mean it's very interesting to observe this from organizations that are digital first so like startups and scaleups and whatnots and then for traditional industries and in the industries when you have for example retailers or like other partners things can get like even more complex. So I do think that every organization deserves their own go to market model but I hope that my take on it is a healthy fundament to get them there. Yeah, for sure. And all the this part of being uh present at the very beginning when we even don't know what will be the solution is super important because this will help us to know who is the audience and so influence the marketing plan about what type of channels depending on where the where the target is. Fantastic. Or even like sometimes do let's say more wacko testing that we would traditionally be able to do. So sometimes I mean the bigger you are the higher the risks are right and I mean if you're a corporate you cannot just like move fast and break things because you will upset your stakeholders and it can create like reprettable damage when it comes to brand recommen recommendations. So if you have let's say a more savvy go to market function and even like sometimes we do work with dummy brands. So we are launching those fake brands, you know what it is to just like harvest the insights to inform the company if this type of field, if this type of work is investable. And I have seen that done a lot like with digital marketing, with online communities, sometimes even in partnerships with influencers because the sooner we can just like grasp those realistic those real market insights into the process, the more likely we are going to have an informed uh response to the circumstances. Do you have um a specific example of a very well executed go to market like an example of past experience or something that you you saw that you really liked? Mhm. So um maybe I can just like share one example which I'm like personally very fond of. Um it comes from a bigger organization but it was managed as a very like independent project. So there was a campaign that we did with buyer which was super focused on like female intimate health right and you know how it is. I mean we are both women. If you have like these type of issues you get like a little bit embarrassed and it is not something that you would like talk about on phone like with 10 different friends. So that's a little bit delicate intimate uh relationship. So we created just like this awareness campaign that this is normal. I mean everybody could talk and should talk about this. They don't have to go like to forums to find find like dangerous cringe advice with some sort of medicines that are like perfectly not okay to put in human body. So uh we actually teamed up with a couple of students from pharmacy and with a couple of doctors and pharmacies that created like very high quality educational material and we reached 70% of the target group that they had with just like this awareness campaign and the whole point I think it was like super nice because if you work in this type of field you know you cannot really like do billboards oh if something got out there like oh you need help or something like that that's not how do you promote these type of products but it was just like done in a beautiful and socially responsible manner. So that for example was a very nice campaign that we did for to create like more awareness and more brand affiliation to a younger demographic group which is traditionally like not the ones that you know goes to the pharmacy and reads flyers. It's just like a little bit of brand rejuvenation for them. So this is a campaign that I personally very much enjoyed because you know how it is. I think these campaigns are very good for society. For you what were like the key success metrics like how do you explain the success of this campaign? So it was the activation campaign right? Um we were building an online community. We had a podcast. We had like events. We had just like our digital communication and we measured the engagement. The engagement was defined by the number of people who like either engaged with us on a social media but not like number of likes but something more meaningful um attended the events just like asked questions interacted with our experts. So it was just like those types of kpa but what was most important there was to measure like a sentiment right because when we started the campaign things were awkward there was a couple of nas and our friends just like interacting with this post and it was just like a little bit of a taboo subject when we started out but later on I think that just like by being authentic and being super high quality in the way how we communicated that we created like a lot of trust and a lot of goodwill that customers just like in started to interact with us differently. I have like some super technical campaigns as well. Sometimes we do like very sophisticated cold reach but if you ask me like the type of campaign that I'm most passionate about. Yeah, this is one of my favorite ones. How you feel about the campaign that you do? And I'm working also in the B2C for hiking and of course I am passionate about about hiking. So it's easier for ourself to understand also the the needs because we are living it. So uh it can also help. This is fantastic and I think it's so important and it makes you like much better in customer empathy right because for example if you work with a very let's say alien industry I was working with concrete and with injection molding I mean very interesting industries but before I actually built my house I literally had like no idea how this decision making and like buyer journey goes um it became important later on in my life. But this proximity and just like understanding and living this lifestyle in consumer brands, it's so important even when it comes to small things like copyrightiting. Because if you say to me right now, Maya, can you please write me a copy about um men's belts or something like that? I would be uh belt Christmas present relative impossible to be. That would be it. I don't know anything else about this. Right. It's always the same about knowing our audience and being able to really uh use the right words and the the words that are meaningful to them. Quick break to present you a two biggest challenges I hear from product leaders are one how to pursue growth without losing focus and two how to make the product vision a reality the fastest way possible. But as you know resources are increasingly limited in the tech industry. Hiring the right talents to build the product takes forever and working with agencies expensive for the value they deliver. That's why I am very happy to partner with Apponite. They're not just another dev shop. They are a product development powerhouse. From user research to coding, their team embeds with yours, deeply analyzes your strategy to define how to positively impact your business metrics and builds high performing apps that scale. Whether it's fintech, health tech, or SAS, they co-create products that grow businesses. So if you're tired of delays, bad code, or agencies or agencies that just don't get it, check out aonite.com/grow. Let's build something great. Let's go back to the discussion now. Yeah. And you can bypass this to some extent. Even if you are not like super passionate about the field that you are working in, you can do like a bunch of customer research as long as you are talking to customers, you will be fine. And like there is a bunch of online forums that you can analyze. So a friend of mine uh he was helping his father doing like a really weird product which is like uh bait to attract um bors so wild swines. And the guy is like as old as we are. Oh, he was not really thrilled to like promote these baits about hunting and stuff like that. But nevertheless, he spent like two months interacting with those people in the forums and he got scaringly good at this. And did you have on the contrary like a go to market that or an activation that really didn't work and how did you explain it or something that you saw also? It it can be anything. So a lot of times when we have more technical products um and if go to market is done like literally when things are burning and you cannot change much and you are like literally spending your last money and you are super pressured there will be some decisions that are very hard to correct and you don't have like a lot of space for research and experimentation. So you are very pressed and you are very like obligated to make the right bets. Sometimes it can work as a wonderful motivator but I will share an example where it didn't. So we were launching and I have to be super careful now but a running app and the running app was developed like with a vision to help semiarathon learners so serious learners but the agencies that they were working with um they launched meta ads and meta ads were targeted at a very like mainstream audience and these were like this was a cooker pressure cooker. It was like super nervous environment. We really had to make it or break it. And we suddenly saw that there were a lot of registrations like yay team was celebrating all good but then nobody was using this rep for running. Why? Because those people didn't even have the running habit. They were just like there lying on the couch clicking meta ads, Facebook ads and like thinking that they will lose some weight potentially if they would run. So it was just like a very bad selection of an audience and a channel of communication without like they optimized for the right type of metrics right the metrics that they were optimizing for was cost to install and if you are optimizing for this of course you will select like some sort of mainstream audience but the app like it needed early adopters. it really needed those marathon runners that are serious about the running and need this type of guided guided running advice. So, uh yeah, that was a miss unfortunately. And so, what will be your recommendation to avoid doing this mistake again? Um don't spend any money to acquire your first 100 customers. No, just kidding. Um it's all about just like acknowledging that there are early adopters and that there is mainstream. And whenever you have a product which is still like a little bit buggy and a little bit like underdevelopment and you need to learn a lot from the users, mainstream users like are usually not the ones that would be first of all the most forgiving and second of all like you cannot really count of their support if the product is not like topshelf in the moment. So yeah, it would be like a much better strategy in that case would be to go and like do some flyers on marathons, to go into running groups like on Straa and do the let's say more of a unscalable gorilla like tactics before drowning a bunch of money into meta ads to have my ass who cannot run 10 kilometers without stopping. Well, potentially I can, but I then don't want to. Are there common ideas about go to market that you disagree or that you really want to debunk? I mean on Monday I do this on a daily basis. Um so for me you know you have to understand I'm a very pragmatic person and I will work with literally anything there is and I will try to grasp the best out of this because this is my nature. You are giving something and you are optimistically and positively trying to make the best out of such situation. So um yes this is like kind of a default mindset of a golden retriever but nevertheless whenever it comes to go to market I think that people are like severely overthinking this yes it's important it has a lot of gravitas it can be a reason why a good product can be like sunk but I always like to start with a good product because if the product is good if it really delivers value we can save it we can always develop like good better go to market strategy and as long as we are diligent and agile and observant in what assumptions did not work out and like what else did we learn on this journey I think that it has a fair fighting chance what I don't like is to just like make this type of field of work very ununderstandable for people as you would have to be like a rocket scientist to grasp this yes it can be difficult in science environments this is why you can like do it with your team you can hire an expert, you can get a consultant, you can read a little bit more about this and do your own research. So, it's always fixable. But, um, I always like the idea that people who will live with the consequences of the decisions actually do the work. I don't like this being like completely outsource. Okay, here is my product, take it to market. Even though I have done all the research and I know my customer inside out, but here you go. You take it for to market. my hands are clean. So that's an attitude that I'm not very fond of. And do you have some advice for the PMM community in France to to become an excellent go to market strategist besides reading your book? Of course. No, no, I didn't want to go like that way. But I would just like start and often times with product marketers and I mean I'm being completely sincere here. there is like a lot of imposttor syndrome and there is a lot of just like you know maybe our type of work is not like the most important in the organization but I think it is in go to market it's definitely something that makes tremendous difference imagine like you're responsible for sales tax for messaging for all the cool like pitch decks that we are doing for landing pages often and I just think that you should take a little bit more power to display your work a little bit more and grasp like more power, more control in the organization. And I'm not trying like to do a rebellion here, but what I have seen in practice, your work really matters. So please don't be afraid to talk about this, to display it, and to proudly share your achievements because otherwise who will you have to do this. Yeah, that's true. We we often forget that if we don't show the work, nobody will do it for us. So we have to be the first ones to do it. Yeah. And I mean the spirit in this community is so nice like I love to interact with product marketing communities like people are curious they are very friendly in discussions unlike developers. Um I mean there is a lot of good stuff going on. So yeah just embrace it and showcase your work a little bit further. And there is uh something that that you wish uh you had known earlier about go to market about all the things that you you know now and that you are you have written on the book probably it's has to do something with the things that don't scale right coming back to the example that we were discussing with the running app so everybody is like super wired into thinking that we have to do things that scale that will super grow our chart or something like that but in early stages of go to market things are very delicate they are very fragile before you have a product market fit I kind of grew to believe that it doesn't really matter what you do as long as it is done it is perfectly okay to give up some flyers and to like have a billboard at one event and do like things that are a little bit let's say non-digital and not very scalable per se but whatever gets the job done whatever will get you those first 100 or 1,000 customers, however you define this milestone. Then it's really important to start building systems and I like to think about those go to market motions. So structured and repeatable ways how to get customers. So I defined seven of those. We can talk about this later but um it's super important to have predictable way how to get new inflow in your business because otherwise you will be stuck forever doing flyers at the event. So you have to evolve. That's probably the most important one. Um did I place enough emphasis on this a year ago? I don't think so. But I literally started to think about this go to market journey in milestones such as stairs. Right? So this is the first traction that you need to win. Then the second one, then the second one, and then the second one. Um and your go to market strategy will evolve. It will change. Okay. So the important is to know what are these different steps and where we are and how to to go from one to another, right? Literally reverse engineering the objective. I mean, if your objective, Carla, would be to get like 10,000 downloads of your apps, you would you could think about this such as, okay, how do I get the first thousand ones for free, preferably subgroups or with existing customers or something like that. Okay, now I learn and I either refined my messaging, I just like do a little bit better creatives or something like that to have even better success in the second batch that I will do. Right? So it's reverse engineering and being very perceptive towards what you learn on a way. [Music]
