# The Go-To-Market Strategist: Maja Voje on Winning GTM Strategies

URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fCF2WlcNx3Q
Collected: 2026-06-20

---

As stupid as this sounds, if I could offer you one advice, spend 60 time of your time defying and redefing ICP because it does make all the difference. If I had to prioritize, I would choose positioning over branding anytime because positioning is literally the spine of whatever I will say to my target market on my website on my just like sales proposals in my content on LinkedIn in just like the webinars that I will be deriving. Your client doesn't really have time to think for half a days who you are or what you do. They are mainly interested in what is it for them. Hey, welcome to the message market fit podcast. I'm your host Chris Sylvestri and if you're new here, this is a show where I chat with B2B SAS folks in marketing, product, growth, and founders about how they join the conversation already happening in their customers minds. We dive deep into their thinking, their systems, and their playbooks to see how they empathize with their audience and speak to them in a way that resonates. so they're compelled to take action. Join us and learn how you too can shape your messaging strategy and write copy that truly resonates and differentiates you. [Music] This episode is a must listen if you need help figuring out how to bring your product to market and the messaging around it at every touch point. We have Maya Voya, best-selling author of Goto Market Strategist and consultant who has spent 15 years working with high-profile companies like Google Dyer and Heineken, as well as over 800 startups. In this episode, we chat about why talking to customers is the most overlooked aspect of successful go-to market strategies. How to focus your resources where you have the highest chance of winning. creating a differentiated value proposition in the age of AI, practical methods for testing your messaging with early customers and much more. Let's dive right in. Hey Maya, thanks so much for being here. How are you? Chris, I'm so glad we met on LinkedIn and I can't wait to dive deeper because I just love your pet podcast and everything what you do. Awesome. I have probably too many questions in the list, but we'll try to get I can talk really fast cover. So I wanted to start with kind of overview high level question. So you work with hundreds of companies giants like Google buyer but also some scrappy startups. So what's one let's call it universal truth about going to market successfully that you see a lot of founders overlook? Yeah as stupid as this will sound but talking to your customers. I was just like doing evaluation for a consulting group in the UK now and I was an external valid validator for one of the founders there. I spent 5 hours with her. Never did she ever mention like any sort of customer insights and I had the same conversation with a really giant corporation yesterday and they said the number one problem for their engineers for their developers is to be open to just like accepting customer insights as soon as possible. As stupid as this sounds, if I could offer you one advice, spend 60 time of your time defying and redefing ICP because it does make all the difference. Yeah. What why do you think is that like with LinkedIn with all the knowledge that's around? It's I think it's dive or should we and go ahead and pitch your own wild ideas as well. But here are my favorite ones. So first it's just like this fear of rejection, right? And this is so evolutionary hidewire in our brain because we humans are made to be very tribal creatures. And if we are rejected from our tribe then like a tiger can eat us and we will be dead. It's just so frustrating psychologically to spend two years working on something and then being exposed to the risk that the market is going to say no thanks. But the reality is that 95% of the innovation never cross the chasm, right? They never reach the early majority buyers. So the sooner you can start incorporating the insights from your early customers, from your early adopters into the product equation, the more likely it is that you are going to be on a winning side. Then like ego is a huge one, right? Often times people who build products are really smart. They are engineers. They are experts in all sort of fields of life. And if I'm thinking that I'm doing the best job that I possibly can, who are you user to say me that I'm not doing a good job? So that can be like a little bit of psychologically weird. And I guess the third one is just not a thing that you would typically prioritize because it will never be urgent, right? And in go to market, we are often just so pressed. Imagine this meme like everything is burning and we're trying to be flanked. So this is like the state of the reality right now. And to say like to a busy founder to incorporate 10 hours of customer discovery in their already packed schedule is just like something which is not a fair ask. But yet the best companies in the world as well as Y combinator always say that as long as you are talking with five to 10 customers a week you will be fine. And I very much tend to believe that. How about you Chris? And by the way other conspiracy theories. Let's talk conspiracy. Yes. Yeah pretty much. I what I'm seeing is a lot of like early stage I don't really work with early stage companies but the few that I work with typically if the founder especially is like a technical founder then it's hard for them to accept feedback from other people if it's a marketing guy like he knows that okay I need to know and learn from people but if it's a technical guy like super focused on the product it might be hard for them to accept and even try to listen to other people so they basically wait until it's too late. Yeah. All right. So let's talk about go to market. You made it a science as much as possible. So what inspired you to do that? Oh my god. How you made me feel real special. Yeah. Look, it just comes from like this need in my life, right? I was literally dog fooding for to set up my own curiosity. So the thing was I was my background is in growth and marketing and everybody told you that you need a product market fit but nobody really told you how to get there. And whenever like you saw a very good product in the beginning and you were working with marketing agencies for example if the campaign was not a success they could always like use the excuse that you don't have a product market fit. So that made me extremely cautious as well as curious to dive further into how to secure a best fighting chance for good innovation to succeed to generate critical mass of users and I reverse engineer a couple of just examples from my own life. I interviewed more than 100 people in order to find patterns and it all came down to this inceptions that go to market is actually it's a parallel process. So first you are following this product market fit logic like problem solution fit forgive me if you don't have that then you shouldn't exist product market fit is more interesting because like here we would traditionally measure the retention right but I made it a little bit more interesting so my philosophy here is that we should already be monetizing whenever possible why because coming from Europe I'm familiar with a lot of horror stories and just like Yesterday I had one. So there was this AI agent for legal services and they have had I kid you not 16,000 free users. Yesterday they introduced a payw wall and guess just guess how many customers converted. I don't know 100 200. Oh yeah. Okay. That was really [ __ ] cool. A bit higher after glancing to the free users. Yeah. Yeah. expectations were a bit higher and in this limbo a product team made a bunch of like really wrong decisions. Why? Because they were optimizing this towards users that literally cost them money when they So this is why I always like to think that yes product market fit is this whole idea of value exchange. So you find a market and you create a product that creates value to the market. But you should also capture some of these value addits that you build this sustainable business model out of this. And first first thing that we are doing in go to market are super scrappy. We just have to do something right. Maybe we will use forums where our customers are. Maybe we will do a little bit of outbound a little bit of warm and cold outreach if we are really brave. Then like we have a bunch of platforms such as product hunt or scraping some other existing platforms where the users are and it won't be like super coordinated in the it will just get the job done but later on as the ultimate holy grail of the go to market phase we need to create predictable and repeatable way how to literally find customers. So we no longer have to worry where our next five customers are coming from month to month, but that we can either create a retention or a predictable engine so that we build a sustainable business which is scalable and investable if you want to go down that route. Yeah. I'm curious about what if there was any what was the moment that you realized that okay actually the like growth plans for established companies are different from those of like pre product market fit companies was there a specific moment I've seen their budgets nevertheless I'm more of we work what we have with what we have girls and the thing is that we can learn so much from both world so the corporates and just like bigger corporation they excellent and standard operating procedure and like setting up processes right to make things super coordinated and to really make the work like an engine but if we are sourcing just like this innovation I won't be saying ghto style of how to go to markets there is a lot of inspiration that we can take from startups and often times when I'm working with corporates for example we are dealing with challenges that resemble startups so much so I always say that the corporate that cannot just move fast and break things. So then point for startups because we can literally iterate much faster than they can. But on the other hand, they have these resources, these assets that are unimaginable for a majority of people that are just starting out, right? So they have really smart people working on their team. They cannot hire external agencies. They have these huge budgets to invest into. My question was really how to take best out of both worlds. And by the way in corporates there is this huge risk that they would damage their brands. So whenever it comes to like early experimentation it they have to do it in a really cautious matter. For example, some of the companies are still running focus groups as the spine of their customer discovery, which is crazy because they could get so many like better insights out of like from the internet from actually interviewing their customers whatever. But there are risks to account always into the equation. But I don't know how would you describe because you have experience from both worlds as well. Yeah. Yeah. I guess like a risk aversion for these companies, the bigger ones and yeah, seeing how there's so many missed opportunities for the smaller one that they don't take advantage if they only knew that there were was a better way like you say like a better strategy that it's just they yeah probably focus too much on the product and not really listen and gauge what's out there. You mentioned interesting strategy that I'm wanted to dive into which is the beach strategy segmentation you call it in the morning if we can use that example but what's your best advice for founders who maybe are afraid to niche down too much or exclude like potentially good profitable first of all you're normal I absolutely get it you build this product with a vision to help as many people as possible Right? And it's damn scary to make these decisions within limited intelligence that you have right now because the risk of making a wrong decision is something that keeps us awake at night. But this is the logic why you should still consider beach head strategy. So just to explain the beach head strategy really quick. It is all about starting on a small market segment which has four characteristics. First they have a burning painoint. they really need to solve this problem and they need to solve it now, not next quarter, not next year, now. Then they have reasonable willingness to pay. So their sales cycle is that nothing as crazy as 16 months. They are just like in a position to take a decision and actually get this job done with you. Then the other characteristics of the beach head segment is super interesting because this is like literally your proximity to the market. This is a pinnacle of a winning strategy. So playing on your strengths for example if Greece and I go and launch a company for construction AI for example it probably won't be a great success because we know about right so we need to tackle like type of a market that we are familiar with that we have some connections with that we can be a little bit more credible if we are starting this out and fourth most important one is the that the beach head segment produces the case studies, the testimonials, the references that you need so that you can convince other customers like the next segment, the JSON segment and move up market gradually. And I'm not talking like some really weird outdated strategies that only like Facebook used 20 years ago. This is something which is increasingly important in this world because competition is getting fiercer. barrier to entry the market are getting as low as possible and there is to speed is absolutely crucial. So you can totally implement this type of thinking to just concentrate your resources to really focus and to make this critical mass of traction on a selected target market where you have the highest chance to win. And now why is it scary for people to choose it? a because you haven't done enough research and you cannot always do like enough research. Some things are more complicated but you can always do something you can a couple of interviews with your clients right so it's super important to connect this intelligence and just like it's so important to come at ease with this that this is like for now decision that it is not forever decision so if your beach head segment if your beach head market is just like 14 hospitals in west London for now that's perfectly fine you will be able to move up market later, but we all start somewhere. And especially when you are scarce on resources, it's much better to focus your resources than to go and do a little bit of construction and a little bit of freelancers and a little bit of e-commerce and pay, right? Because it's very unlikely that those efforts will pile up and create a critical mess. Yeah. And also when your segmented is like niche down narrower it's also easier to for positioning for messaging because everything becomes a case stud literally think that you can sell up to 1 million with a couple of case studies. Yeah. I'm also interesting in the naming beach head. You use a lot of like military strategy analogies. Why is that? Where does it come from? I'm also like a Navy Seal a bit of a fanatic with war and stuff. So yes, I was I was curious about it. M okay look the reason is very historical. So before we knew anything about business strategy the science of strategy started as a military strategy. Julius Caesar Napoleon just like those legendary guys knew a thing or two about strategy right before we started to talk about it in business. And first time I check human behavior hasn't changed so much. And then there is just like this personal reason. I feel very stressed in the go to market stage, right? I literally feel that I have to defend my company that like I'm under attack all the time. And just like the state of it, the mental state of it is not very peaceful. It's not very calm. It's a little bit of more dynamic, right? And it kind of makes sense to embrace this type of mentality because it literally you against the world. It's you trying to win against all odds. It's you fighting the best that you can in order to make this happen. So for that reason, I do think that the military energies land quite well. I know that not with everybody, but I think they are appropriate. Hey, it's part of your positioning, right? You want to filter out somebody like people who are not No, I see I'm not wearing camouflage or something crazy. Yeah, exactly. It's just more It's more the Yeah, the packaging of the offer, not business as normal. So I really wanted to address it here that this is like not business as normal that this is this is something that you will do for a limited amount of time. It won't be pretty but it you will feel very proud once you successfully nailed your mission going in and going out. All right. You mentioned that branding especially considered as the appearances of like putting lipstick on a pig like a lot of so a lot of found startups maybe might consider working on their website their design their branding their fonts instead of their positioning or maybe they're confusing the two what would you tell them in this case yeah first of all I would like to tell a story about my book cover my book cover is very distinctive let me tell you a story how it happened. So my designer/developer/cousin that I can never fire because he's a family member. He was very frustrated with my briefings for the cover. So once he just made these stupid jokes with AI tools and did this alien. Originally the alien had guns but we had to remove guns because otherwise the cool the book could be sanctioned from Amazon. So this is the story behind the cover. What I wanted to tell with this story is that it doesn't have to be anything fancy because first of all you don't know what you don't know on your go to market journey you will learn so much like literally as you are in with the market you are gaining daily insights and the intelligence that you are operating with right now is nowhere near the perfect state of intelligence. So pragmatically, would you really like to invest 30K in some fancy design? Wouldn't because I would know that I will have to change it gazillion times. And another story from my launch. My first tagline was from overwhelm to hyperfocus and I was super stubborn when it came to it. So I put it as a like headline with my webinar with Miros. I also put it in metarettes only to lose a couple of thousands of euros because that bloody thing did not convert. Now think why did it not convert? Because I was playing around with some really vanilla value propositions. My target audience they don't have time. They don't have patient. They are like completely impatient when it comes to [ __ ] So the zero's [ __ ] is tolerated. And this is like the state of mind that I'm have to live with. Right? So you have to be super direct. Right now my headline is from strategy to profit. Go to market strategy from strategy to profit and it converts at 8a 5% on my landing page. Why? Because it is straight to the point. And no offense branding expert would ever derive this type of iterations with me. They could get pretty explosive. They are good. But for now like right now we are changing stuff on a weekly or monthly basis, right? And how much do I really want to invest into assets that I know that will be broken? Yeah, not very much. And there is another thing to branding which is super unflattering to say when you're starting out, you really don't have a brand. Often you as a founder, you are a brand. That's the closest proxy that you have to branding. So it like the majority of people didn't don't even know how my company is called and I don't mind. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. When do you think companies should start actually thinking about yeah their branded website and everything? What stage? So there is one nuance that we have to talk about. Building in public is super super important because it a unlocks a bunch of organic impressions that we need if we don't have a lot of budget and b it invites iteration with a target audience. So it helps create the community. So in terms of that like I'm completely on board with you and there is like another exception to the rule which are luxury products and lifestyle products or something like that. Brand is super important there. But seriously folks we're talking about B2B SAS here and the majority of our buyers are pragmatic creatures interested in jobs to be done and use cases. I know companies that had designers from Fiverr for five or six years into their existence. I'm not saying that it is like an ideal state, but I would just say choose your problems. Choose your problems and fix the one that will have the majority of impact. If I had to prioritize, I would choose positioning over branding anytime. And whenever I type of work, I always like to start with positioning. Why? Because positioning is literally the spine of whatever I will say to my target market on my website on my just like sales proposals in my content on LinkedIn in just like the webinars that I will be deriving and it I love to derive it from either ICP or a use case and use case is hugely important now in the days and age of AI because there are a bunch of agents out there and there is this huge knowledge of symmetry between the maker and the users and to buy use cases as specific as you can be the better it will be because look your client doesn't really have time to think for half a days who you are or what you do they are mainly interested in what is it for them and I don't know please go ahead and pitch in with your insights I might be and I literally fight about this with my husband who's a branding expert but I I'm not convinced yet that I would start this process sooner than yeah I know product market. Yeah. As like messaging strategist, copywriter myself, I can say that there's I see the like the debate copy before design or copy after design blah blah blah. People never seem to make a decision and what I always said always think it's good like copy should come first and design second. I agree because yeah because that's how you like you first come up with the narrative and then make it nice. But also I don't think it needs to be like completely siloed. You can work together with the designer. Go back and forth. Like for example, the first thing that I do it's right copying Google Docs that you can basically it's super easy to edit. You can comment with feedback and then I turn them into wireframes once everything is approved basically. So it doesn't need to be siloed. It can be done together. But yeah, the copy should dictate what the page looks like. Yeah. And even for founders, I do think that if I had to say something to my founders, the ones that I'm working with is that copyrightiting is probably one of the single best AOI skills that you can acquire yourself. If you really think about this, right, if you're a good copywriter on LinkedIn, for example, and a bunch of guys are seeking for help there and please don't come to me because I can barely write. I'm using a bunch of AI in order to get those hooks flying and I don't think that I'm there. But even I like literally I invest in sometimes when I'm have these blockers, I rewrite texts from other people. I have a bunch of mood boards and I'm just like observing trying to figure it out what worked for somebody because like even nailing one skill has so much multipliers and working with copyriters. So we can have a very honest discussion here. For my book launch, I literally fired six copyriters and not that I would have this ego clash that nobody could capture my voice or something like that. But the [ __ ] was not converting. I will not pay for somebody that produces negative ROI. Sorry. And I'm not very impatient person when it comes to that. But come on, after a month or so, if it is working or it is not working, right? That's a no-brainer. Yeah, this skill is kind. You mentioned building in public. So I've always associated building in public with more the solopreneur that the guy posting on Twitter about the stuff that he's building maybe coding. How do you think about building in public for companies starting out? What kind of messaging angle should they use or should it just be completely transparent sharing what they're doing in the moment? Interesting. So there are a couple of schools of thoughts there. There is like a bunch of people who think that being like supremely emotional and vulnerable and honest is the best way to go. I don't necessarily think so. Customers are mainly interested in what is it for them. The message should somehow be polished towards communicating USPS and UVPs as well. By the way, do we have to explain these terms? Yeah, I'm always curious to hear like different people's definition. So yes, very simple. UVP UVP unique value proposition. Your promise to a customer. What do you do for customer USPS? Why you? Why are you the best? Why are you different than anything else? Why are you a go-to for your specific target customers? This is my very simplified way how I think about this. My developers, which is cool. Yeah, there should be like a little bit of strategy imprinted to this, not just today I'm exhausted again. I was working for 14 hours. I mean is a value that is being pro pro produced there for the world. So I'm all the time very surgical about making sure that we are delivering value to our target audience not just like having our false poetic inspirational brain dumps when we are doing these posts which is fine it works for some people but I would personally never do it. So then the important distinction is who should be the communicator right because a lot of time founders themselves I literally have a founder who said I don't want to be famous I want to be rich I was like okay fine and we will hire influencers and they will do the bloody communication for you if you don't want to go and be on the gram yourself that's fine I can work with that by yeah like there could be a strategic decision that a founder does it or that like multiple people from the company are doing So that would literally create not economies of scales but a little bit of a multiplier when it comes to reach that you build this employee generated content. And last but not least, there is a very popular strategy right now to just join forces with partners such as influencers with other companies with just like sapstack writers to just go audience already is because you and I both know it's bloody hard to build an audience and in the beginning nobody really cares. So my philosophy here is always do something which is incredible. Then go where the audience is and make sure that you have a lead conversion and lead generation and conversion mechanism. If you are Yeah, I got I actually got asked by someone if I could be a ghost writer on LinkedIn for a founder. What did you say? This is a new niche like ghost writing for founders on LinkedIn. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I didn't say Oh, no. Because I don't do that. I just do website email. That's it. I try to be as strict and niche down as possible. So yeah, I had to say no. And good. You are using beach head in your business yourself. Exactly. I never thought about it, but it's a good point. Value proposition. So especially now you mentioned age of AI AI powered. How would you recommend companies to come up with a solid unique differentiated value proposition? What's your I literally have a framework for this. So I will just walk you through the steps. Step number one, positioning never happens in isolation. Your customers are always comparing you against some. And just this morning, I was training a VC group from Dubai and they pitched me another all-in-one AI agent. And I was being a little bit of a [ __ ] about this and I said, "Yes, okay, this is like the fourth time that somebody this week is trying to sell me on this idea. I'm not buying it anymore. This is not differentiated." So, they are always comparing you against some. What you need to do, you need to understand what are the relevant competitive alternatives that your customer is comparing you against. How do you know that? Yeah, you speak with them, right? You ask them, okay, like in this decision, what else are you considering? And the answers here are usually like DIY or do nothing, which is like super interesting one to compete. No decision. Yeah. Then we have direct competitors, the ones that are like sharp onto like that you have to be and you have a little bit of an indirect competition that might go like in terms of services or tools that are not even purposefully built for. So you understand your competitive alternatives. Now you need to understand which are the criteria which is important for your target audience. So how are they making these decisions? What are decision making criteria? And big spoiler price is not always number one. Often times people are just like interested will it work for me? Does it deliver value or will it get me promoted even some sort of personal reasons after you of the competitive alternatives as well as the differentiation criterias you find where you have a likely place to win on this market. So something that you can bring up front. Just this morning I was doing this exercise and the result was effort. So we literally double down on how easy, how supremely easy it is to use this solution and this was just like this core idea that we tried it to present there. Then in the next step you need to consider what are your true differentiators. often times hear people write stuff such as wonderful customer support or something and this is completely like difficult to believe because everybody can a write this on the website and you don't really believe if you haven't experienced that right so you need to be like really honest to yourself what are the true differentiators and the ones that you can actually defend with evidence and if you are a copyrighted experts and you're surely familiar with principles of persuasion But here I'm social proofing the [ __ ] out of everything especially if we are a startup a new player in the market because we literally have zero historical credibility. So for each thing that we identified that is a differentiator we like just like first translate this to the benefit for the customer. Why is it good for the customer to just rewire our brains a little bit and then provide proof evidence and later on we can dive in into the UVB and USP development but my story here is everything has to be tested because things change all the time and if you think about strategy as an intelligence response to the circumstances as the circumstances change so should your positioning so should your messaging so you should always keep this dynamic it's not do this once and forget about this. But for AI tools in specific, what I often see is that they fail to just communicate a clear use case. Okay, we are all built one platform AI agents that can potentially work well with market sales with auto garages and a couple of other different verticals that doesn't communicate that you are the best at everything. Right? So again, I would be sourcing from the science of creating case studies and making sure that I'm just like focused on the value that the customer is getting. But e, I would love to learn from you as well. How do you tackle this for AI? I actually just wrote finished a project with Moz and they started introducing AI lately and yeah one of one of the big takeaways that we wanted to make clear on the product page for MOS pro was that yes they have AI but why so connecting AI to the actual benefit of what does AI in their specific solution do for their specific customers so try to be to connect the dots for them because a lot of times it like all the times it's not enough to say, "Yeah, we have AI." Yeah. Don't make me think I don't have your knowledge of AI. Why should I care that this is AI? What does it dance for me? This is what I Exactly. Yeah. You mentioned testing. I want to dive into that as well because especially B2B and also early stage for what you call the ECP, which I really like early customer persona. How do you test the messaging for an early customer persona? What type of first research do you do and then the testing activities? because especially in B2B it's hard to like recruit CFOs or CMOs to do to look at your messaging. Yeah. So I'm super curious super curious to hear your methods. So coming from my background in growth I have a little bit of a special way how to make this. Yes, of course interviews matter like always you should be doing interviews. Now that we are bel about this I will tell you how to do this really quickly. So first we can launch Google ads. Google ads are fantastic because you can buy the ad space and get like the relevant critical mass of evidence, statistical significance that you can use for your decision making. So if you do this with advertising on either Google or Meta, this is absolutely fantastic. The second thing how to test this really quickly is outbound. If you just like sequence outbound, if you for example want to send out I making [ __ ] up but 1,000 emails and testing different value proposition as well. You could do the same with LinkedIn invites and just like before you go to any sort of like big scale testing which is significant significant. So it's that it's AB testing on the landing pages as well that we forgot to mention but you should at least grasp this early indication that this is flying with your folks. I love to test it on sales calls when I'm doing or just like randomly chatting with people. And I also love to harvest this type of insights from the exit interviews if I get them because what do they have to lose? The exit interviews people are so honest. I absolutely love it. So that's another like really good treasury of insight that we can harvest. But I'm all about don't overthink this. This is my initial idea. Now I will use scientific methods in order to validate if it is like the right one or not. And sometimes yes I burn my ego like with overwhelm from to from overwhelm to hyperfocus but most of the time it makes me help more earn more money which is cool for the ads to you mention ads what are like do you see that the budgets for ads for testing specifically are those like fair is it how would you get buying from some for a company to to launch these ads just for testing at the beginning is it pretty straightforward what do you think I just tell them get tested with two to5 €5,000 up for it. You decide. Okay. We can find an inexpensive or free way how to do this, but ads will get us like critical numbers that we need really fast. Yeah. So, people either have time or money. This is what I know from business. Yeah, that's true. Another specific testing methodology I wanted to ask if you ever tried, what do you think about testing with AI? So there's this trend methodology that's coming out lately which I've tried on my own not with specific platforms but they call the synthetic research. So what you do is basically there are platforms who do it for you or what I do with different tools. It's I have my research that I collected with speaking with customers surveys and all the stuff I feed it to the AI. Okay, what I typically use is Gemini 1.5 Pro which has got the biggest been the biggest context window and then I basically I have my personas and then what I do is create a separate chat and I instruct the chat to wear the shoes of my persona to become my customer persona and then I have basically this customer persona that stays in its role and I can I don't know share copy messaging and asking for feedback and I actually tried and it's surprisingly good like it doesn't give it doesn't get you to 100% but even 60 70% of the way there maybe sometimes 80 there are some studies like papers that they have done for like willingness to pay and they got 80% of the way the same feedback they go my developers will love it where can I learn more I like send links I have lots of stuff yeah so that yeah the there's a platform I spoke with the found co-founder it's called synthetic users and they do it for companies is basically automated and there are lots of like links to papers and stuff. So it's very interesting. Uh can it be worse than people who are paid to participate in focus groups? Yeah, it's it's cheaper for sure when it comes to selecting channels for grow to go to market. What are your thoughts? What are you what's your strategy on what to focus on rather than spreading spreading your thing? Okay, so go where the audience is always the first rule of time, Tom. But in fact, there are five steps. How to select a go to market motion. So a predible and scalable way. How to attract customers to your product. And I will first just like briefly present seven go to market motions that I defined in my book really quickly explain them. First inbound. You produce content which is discovered by your target audience and hopefully they contact you. Second, outbound. Instead of waiting for them to contact you, you contact them. So you send up a couple of hundreds of emails and make sure that they are well very much to your ICP. Then we have paid advertising, paid digital like influencer collaboration, advertising, PR. Sometimes we have communities. Communities are super important especially we are dealing with technical products, right? This is like a holy grail of it. Then what else do we have? We have accountbased marketing and sales. So in contracts to outbound when we are just like literally saying every CTO should see this mail banks we are saying okay we are targeting CTOs from snowflake from sneak and from other companies and we will create this multiple touch point plan how do we eventually start a conversation with them and convert them to our customers. So it's harpooling which is super super interesting. Then we have partnerships. partnerships are super undervalued. You have to have some sort of traction, some sort of like mark before, you are eligible to be somebody's promotion or like technology development partner, but a lot of companies are just like overseeing this very valuable channel of being stronger together. And last but not least, you have favorite one which is productled growth. But let me tell you that you need something in your funnel first before you can really unlock this lever. So it's stupid not like very smart to start with saying my product will go far after I get the users they will just like magically attract other users to it. It happened with chat GPT but for the majority of product it does not. So yeah these were the go to market motions. Now selecting the one this is like the best bet for you. Where can you play to win? First go where the audience is talk to your customers as simple as asking them. So where do you get this information? If you had to solve this problem, what would you do? Which are the influencers and communities and media that you are following? So this is research one. We don't have to dive deeper into this. Ask your audience. The second one is the analysis of competition. And that gets really interesting because here you can play two games. First game that you can play is obviously that you are not reinventing the wheel because somebody has doing this before you and if the rules of playing in the industry is that you should be doing the events it's probably align with your customer journey already. So there are a couple of things that you just have to follow because they are good practices in your industries. Then on the opposite side of the spectrum there might be an opportunity a channel or a tactic that your competitors are completely ignoring that are completely like they have blanks on you. So here is where you can create a lot of unfair advantage like leverage that you can be like the first one to dominate this type of channel as long as it is relevant for your target audience. And the third reality of this is that if you are playing in the established competition arena that some things are just like too crazyly expensive. For example, in hardware industry we had this fair compotex and to be like an exhibitor on compotex it was crazily expensive player in the market you could objectively like not afford this in the first year if you are not well. Okay, that was step number two. Now let's go to step number three which is play on your strengths. be super aware of your weaknesses as well as your strengths and you want to play on your strengths. For example, if you have a room full of developers, you will most likely develop some sort of a mini tool that will help you acquire the customers to be like a little bit more techy. But if you have like people who are good sellers, good presenters, you will more naturally gravitate towards some video format or like doing events, right? So this is like literally it. And then when it comes to selecting go to market motions, it's super important to just like also be realistic of your entire lifeline because some things just take too long. And if you are just starting out, if you have a lifeline of 3 to 6 months, some of the things are off table. And I have this beautiful visual that we can also link in the show notes below. I created a traffic light of which go to market motion cost that much. How much should it be tested and how many human power do you need or digital workers at its or there are just like a couple of obvious candidates such as inbound, outbound, paid digital that give fast feedback loops that you can test really quickly and some of the ones like partnerships because look if I say Chris now will you be my partner and you will ask me Maya how many copyrightiting leads do you have and I was like I can get them. you will say the med later we can decide. Yeah. Well, yeah. It's the kind of this logic. And last but not least, when it comes to go to market motions, it's very important to be persistent because when when you start, you probably suck at them. Like my LinkedIn posts, for example, in the beginning, they were a tragedy. They're still not that good, but I'm trying. But you have to sometime leave it some time to really get this type of fair chance that your go to market motion deserves. And if you are testing something that takes more time such as SEO for example, you cannot really validate this in two months, right? So you need to put the reps and there is this rule of hedging. Yeah, there are a lot of rules in my world because I don't know just like very military military 8020 it's a rule that we will finish with. So do 80% of stuff which is already working well for you. Again back to the rule of focus bit head segment strategy 80% of what is working and up to 20% in experimentation. So usually it will clean up that two or three go to market motions will work well first. But hey good news my friend is that in the beginning you just have to find one. So one holy grail of go to market stage which is one verified gotomarket motion. So I know that I sound make it sound a little bit too how to say bureaucratic but explain my thought process about around this. Yeah I know it's great to have a hierarchy of how to do things. What one thing that I really like about your approach as well especially you can see in all these examples Eric that you use your own consulting business as an example of all the stuff that you do. So actually like bring back and share I have a very selfish reason for that. Yeah it works. So, you know what? I would, sorry to interrupt, but I would never tell my clients to do something that I'm not doing myself. Yeah, exactly. I tell them outbound. I do outbound. Speaking of stuff that you do, have you ever tried cold pitching cold outreach? Because especially I'm kind of getting sick of all of the pitches left in the DMs. So, what's your approach for outbound and pitching cold pitching cold email? So, first of all, I'm collecting signals with my content. I see it with what and then I do social styling in DMs. I have a case study that we can link to the episode. Ah, nice. What if someone doesn't really have as big of an audience? What would you tell them? What's the first piece of advice? Viral post, lead magnet, partnership, or start a conversation by asking for their feedback and their opinion. I was just like coaching before we went on this call. I was coaching one entrepreneur and her audience is approximately like 1,000 maybe 2,000 people and yet she published a post like her review this was a couple of bullets what she did and the reach of the post was maybe 2,000 people I don't know if that was even the case and she already got like five leads so my idea is always to lead with very good case studies and credible information for your target audience look I had posts which were complete [ __ ] such as like how cruise scan the conversion rates from like one website, how what experiments we did and they were [ __ ] in terms of reach but they still attracted new leads to my ecosystem. So my only filter is that I have to create value for a target audience and be as transparent as I possibly can. I cannot be completely transparent because my clients would me if I just say for this brand we did. This is our secret. This is the dirty secret of the business. But hey, this is the game we're playing. This is a problem that we chose for ourselves. Yeah. Yeah. We were talking I think before recording about tools, AI tools. I know that you try a lot of AI tools. What's What are your on your top three list right now that's helping you the most? You mean the ones that I've tried this week? Okay, because there's more. I am trying Mit record. Mit record is really cool for recording the meetings and getting intelligence where you suck as a seller. So my initial score was two comma I think five or eight out of five and now I corrected it in a month to four which makes me very proud. The other one that I'm testing right now and I have a demo with them on Friday is Ava. So it's a sdia bot which is something which is super interesting for me to explore for social settings. So this something that I'm playing around with. And last but not least I am building a little tool myself and I can disclose more information. I don't know if it's going to be a fun project but I'm working with one developer just because it's fun. Yeah. Is it like a scratch your own itch like you're solving one of your problems? Yeah. This is it. This is it. And listen to this crazy story. So I was obsessed with this idea since September and I already got two products that I didn't like. They just didn't produce the type of results that I and then yesterday the new guy that I'm speaking to, he did a prototype in three hours. So I'm very happy with so far with this type of iteration. So hopefully by the year I have no idea when we are publishing this, but hopefully soon I will have something to show. But I'm having a bunch of fun with it. So right now my team is testing it. Yeah, I was considering actually like using one of those AIS for coding but still there's if you're not a developer there's stuff to learn and so yeah I'm not sure I saw you also shared I think one that you used for creating understanding your ideal buyer ICP. Yeah that's working with Eigor the developer for this project on this one the new one because I was so happy with his work. Yeah, that was the one. Do you Yeah. Do you are these all tools they can be also try to recommend to clients you work with if if you see the need? So I have a very good feel of who will grasp AI and who will not. So with the ones that would like to avoid this type of work they are very drawn to the AI tools in order to get this done. But if somebody is like more marketing old school and believes in branding and just oriented research, behavior research or something like that, I will never mention this stuff. So go ahead and do your thing. There is no clear winners or losers at this point of time. I'm just like trying to make sure that everybody's doing something. Yeah, the the red flags. My last question is that fun. I really like the way how you interview. Nice. So, I have one last question that I think you're and you can give your all here, which is what's one thing that you always wanted to say to LinkedIn bros and people posting selfies on LinkedIn that you've never been able to say. Now, it's your time to vent. Please, you two are not as pretty as you imagine. Who cares? I need for brain. Who cares? Apparently, there is an audience for everything, but I'm type of audience who would be attracted to this. Yeah. Yeah, it's crazy. They get lots of comments, but whoever if it works for them, that's fine. Yeah, but it's fine. Look, also my father, like he's recently very much into the conspiracy theories on Facebook and whatever keeps you entertained. It's fine. Yeah, like a reality show on digital. But when I am getting a little bit mad though, Chris here is and I don't know if you share an sentiment or something like that. It's just like this complaining all the time the trauma things are happening and I like I like people who are fighting who are optimistic who are just like pro and like will do whatever is mission critical in order to get there. So I have like very zer for people who are just like there and I had to take a five hour to go to this event cooking. I agree. Totally agree. The There's a limit to the to to the how exposed you get on social media. Like some stuff you have to keep it for yourself, I think. Yeah. Or get friends. Yeah. Yeah. In real life. All right. Awesome. Thank you so much. Maya has been great. So, thank you so much, Chris. Oh my god. Like this was this were so fast. And thank you guys for listening. I hope that you learned a thing or two. If you are interested like to dive deeper, we link a couple of links under the episode. But look, if you have any questions or something like that, just reach out on LinkedIn and if just say that you are Chris friend and you will surely get red carpet treatment from me. Okay. Awesome. Awesome. We link to everything and yeah, thank you so much. Have a great day. You as well. Thank you so much for listening to the pod. I hope you enjoyed the episode. If you did, the best thing you could do to support the show and help me as a small business owner would be to leave a review. Head over to Apple Podcasts or Spotify and let me know what you think. If you don't want to miss future episodes, subscribe. And if you have any feedback, questions, or suggestions for future episodes, just hit me up on LinkedIn at Christopher Sylvester or Twitter at Sylvester Chris. Speak to you next time. [Music]
