# How is AI Transforming Go To Market for B2B SaaS with Maja Voje

URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MKdCh1dBHNk
Collected: 2026-06-20

---

Algorithmically all the AI related content performs well right whenever we are writing about AI it's expected to go well however what you will see very soon is that you will get a bunch of AI generated content there I have been asking myself as a founder a lot what is the amount of admin work that I am making right so how much time does it take me to send out an offer how much time does it take me to like do my DMs on LinkedIn How much time does it take me to do the commenting routine so that my post then perform well on LinkedIn? And I have been thinking really hard what could I potentially automate or even like potentially develop an AI agents to perform the task instead of me and get better and better and better. [Music] Today we will be discussing how AI is changing the goto market motion for SAS companies. We will be focusing mostly on the inbound channel. My guest today is Maya Voyer. She has been a guest before on the show in season three already where she talked about product market fit and go to market. We went into the basics of go to market strategies, product market fit, and the challenges founders might occure. Almost two years later, a lot has changed. So, I had to bring Maya back on the show. Welcome to the show, Maya, or welcome back. >> Thank you so much for having me. And I'm super excited to just like explore a little bit what happened in your business, what's happening in my business because I think with AI we are just like figuring out together, right? Learning by doing. So let's exchange a couple of best practices. >> Yeah, sounds good. I typically ask all the questions. Feel free to ask me, but people are here to listen to you. We talked about two years ago, right? What has changed? You see so many companies, the inside of companies, what has changed and maybe what's coming up in the near future. Haven't you heard? Everything is dead. Outbound is dead. ICP is dead. LinkedIn is dead. Everything is dead. I don't know how companies even exist anymore. AI has changed a lot. We can safely and surely say that not only AI tools, but also AI agents are here to stay. I have been working almost exclusively like 90% my clients have been AI agents. And I'm just like not talking about AI first companies that we can explore later on how are they different to SAS companies but also the big ones. Amplitude is launching agents. User pilot is launching agent. Everybody seems to be launching agent and it got even more interesting. Now we are transitioning towards like multi-agentic workflow. And you know what work got really interesting for me again because two years ago I kind of felt that we are still like repeating those like growth hacking playbooks and inbound Alban by Hopspot and Dropbox referral programs but things got exciting again. That's fun. >> So for listeners who don't know what multi-agentic workflows mean what is it? So if you're okay with like jupy this is the first stage right that you are just like comfortable using AI tools in your personal or business life. The second stage is that you trust AI to actually perform some actions. So this would be like an AI agents that you are using AI intelligence, artificial intelligence to just like perform some tasks and whenever we are mixing this with automations like classical automations just appear it can be like a little bit strange but these agents are self-arning and can like literally evolve. It's not a workflow that you set up once it's something that gets better in iteration. And now we are like in stage three which is like us connecting different agents together to the workflow and still we had to figure it out what's the role of human here why because imagine if you let your AI agents or like cluster of agents into your CRM and said okay agents go ahead and email all my customers get me five new yearly contacts come on let's go technology-wise as a society we are just not there yet we are exploring AI I agents and human collaborations human is usually still in control and I do think that here what is super interesting is that it's redefining our role as workers as somebody who has been like a manager a founder or something like that because now we are have to deal with human intelligence as well as artificial intelligence and it just makes things a little bit different the underlying premise that I have been seeing everywhere in all AI IO launches is earn the right to automate. For example, if you have an AISD, you won't say, "Oh, now get me like my ICP from LinkedIn and go ahead and send those messages." You know, sometimes you have been in touch with these people before and it would look awkward if you just send them like a cold DM. So we need to just like make sure that first we are deploying stuff on smaller pilots and as we see that they act normally that we can like trust it a little bit we can expand. So this is the right to automate that I think is the underlying premise of everything what we're doing with AI at the moment because people are afraid. I'm afraid like what will happen if I let the agents out to dance and do whatever. >> Yeah. In the end it goes back to the fundamentals. Make sure everything is working before you go all in on it. >> Which is different to what we were doing previously with launches, right? Because before like the premise, my very much preferred approach would be to just like go out there and then reverse engineer what worked well in practice. But now imagine if you are dealing like with enterprise environments for example and you say that you are going to automate their support and then that support agents are selling their $10,000 deals for $5 or something like that. It ain't working. So we need to make sure that we have this pilot project that we measure and see the result and then we earn the trust to automate with the client and we create some leverage to attract more of such clients. So that has been just like the usual go-to market route that I have seen for those agents and platforms. >> You mentioned a couple tools at the beginning like how do you see it? Every tool is launching their own agents. Is that typically where people get started? Should they maybe be focusing on tools like N8N where they can build their own agents? How would you recommend people now started to geek out as well and they want to get started just use the tools which are the features already in the tools or go all in on themsel? >> Okay. I like to start with workflows, right? So, I have been asking myself as a founder a lot, what is the amount of admin work that I am making, right? So, how much time does it take me to send out an offer? How much time does it take me to like do my DMs on LinkedIn? How much time does it take me to do the commenting routine so that my post then perform well on LinkedIn? And I have been thinking really hard what could I potentially automate or even like potentially develop an AI agents to perform the task instead of me and gets better and better and better unlike the majority of virtual assistants that I have the pressures to work with because that was like a little bit of a linear process of the improvement but nevertheless ideally I would be able to automate these workflows end to end however that's rarely the reality. I would start by mapping out my workflow. For example, if we say now inbound, it starts with me monitoring other creators. What are their best performing posts? Then learning from their best practices, training my AI writers to perform the job better and better and better and feeding it back to what was actually performing well for me so that we can potentially evolve and create better and better and better posts. That would be one part of the workflow that I would definitely like to automate because if I'm just like scrolling there on LinkedIn and I say oh your posted something interesting save and then on Sunday when I'm doing my content analysis I would be like screenshot now design team he did something interesting it performed well now figure out what should we do in order to replicate his success. So yeah would be like the perfect way how I would start. Then in the second step I would have to decide like where would I typically go with just normal automation for example I have one I don't want to call it agents but it's something main reply that sends weekly updates of which were the best performing posts from influencers I'm following based on that there is something more intelligent that is actually done in NA10 that creates a BO mood board from their best performing in creatives. So now I suddenly eliminated two hours of leg work, right? Two hours that would take me to just like do the screenshots, then organize the screenshots and then like trying to figure it out how I should be using the best practices for design briefing. This is my way how I'm currently tackling this. I buy custommade AI agents and co-pilots as well. For example, for outbound I develop not that intelligent. So for outbound I just go with pre-trained solutions and try to figure out how to make them work for me. Right? So then we have this build versus buy dilemma and for outbound that's not my the core expertise of my company to build outbound agents. >> How many agents are you currently using? I don't know if can you count them? >> Five are normal and others are in the testing approximately seven. And we have this prototype of end to end workflow for LinkedIn and content creation. I call it AI assisted workflow. There are combinations of using normal AIS. For example, if I build a knowledge base, put all my books and white papers and stuff like that into project in chat GPT and then train it prompt it to just like create good LinkedIn post for me. That is not an agent. This is like an AI build me using external tools. But once these posts are actually published on LinkedIn, I can be using agents to do like lead qualification for me who from the relevant ICP bucketed engage. I could be using agents to just like do a little bit of outbound a little drip to those people and stuff is really interesting. So potentially I would like to bring together approximately 15 to 17 agents but it's not working yet. It's still being like developed. >> And I think this is an interesting topic. So you're now using them, you're iterating them. It's not working yet as you mentioned. A lot of people face this right where they might want to start working with agents. And of course if you buy the pre-built things it's going to work a lot quicker but still it needs a lot of iteration. It needs a lot of information to actually make it work for you. >> And then the post training, post- trainining is super important as well. Not only like to get it to get a decent output out of this one, but feeding it back like this performed, this did not perform, this was problematic from general AI use. I would really recommend to everybody to do something super simple. First, think about your workflows. Where are you wasting most time? and either start with something which was already like purposefully trained or with really simple automations that you can do in 8N make or just like other AI agents tools that you are using. I don't want to be like name dropping to many companies at the moment but there are visual builders. >> Yeah. And I mean some are more technical than others. We for example built this huge workflow and it kept breaking all the time. So >> tell me more about your workflow. In the end, I mean, we help SAS companies set up an affiliate program, right? And one of the biggest challenges they have is to find relevant affiliates. We built an agent, for example, who could find relevant affiliates based on keywords, based on backlinks, based on where they're being mentioned and there's no backlinks yet. So, kind of just finding content which is relevant for them. >> Yeah, it process a lot of data in the end like it we made it go looping things like that, but it it at the beginning it kept breaking all the time. So we ran into all the limitations and I feel like when I look at LinkedIn everybody's posting these screenshots of these most complex like I don't think they work or I am crazy but I don't know how you see it as you mentioned you're still iterating it things break all the time you're now building your end to end workflow which I'm not 100% sure is fully is it worth spending all this time to at one point have a working end to end workflow which might break later and you have to keep iterating. You mentioned something super interesting, not working and costs because even for simple jobs such as like scraping all your LinkedIn comments, extracting like ICP from it, these are costs and you would have to hire like external services to do this. Plus, it's a pretty heavy violation of their LinkedIn terms of service that can get you blocked. So, there are of course risks and liabilities adjusted to it. Whereas I'm a fan of wide working meaning encoding whatever you like to do in your spare time. I do think that those build have first of all like security bridges. So they are at their current stage undeployable to any serious B2B environment. The second thing is just like if it's not going to work for you as you are having like this testing almost like perfect like environment then it's very unlikely that you can be even thinking daydreaming about product le because if you let their their actual ICP and to play around with this things can go super bad in the intermediate time I'm working with serious things they are selling AI agents to enterprises NASDAQ companies an approach approach they use in practice is that first they are doing like P proof of concept so that they set up these agents to work with the technology setup in their comp in the company then they have like these testing phases three or four are usually normal and then it's being deployed to the workload process that they are trying to do and then once this is normalized it is getting expanded so this is like gradual adoption pattern that I have been seeing a lot especially in larger environments. But as I'm testing stuff, there are gazillion tools out there and with some of them I have serious concerns to connect my drive, my Google account, upload assets cuz I don't trust these people and I think that's normal. Earn the right to automate by doing by peering like a legitimate company. I think it's not going away anytime soon in B2B where the majority of B AI agents use cases are. You mentioned something interesting like don't just connect all your tools to >> No, don't be an idiot. Don't. >> No, there's a lot of risk to it and it's super easy to make the connection cuz it's often a two click button and then you're giving access to everything. >> Isn't it funny? We have to literally talk about this. I should be talking about this to my boomer dad, right? who's like 60 and he's having right now the spree of AI generated songs and he's sharing them on Facebook and he's selling videos AI generated like good morning here is a cup of coffee and a dog and somebody skiing images there I understand because he was not digital native but to explain that to people who are working in marketing and sales of B2B companies that get me a little bit concerned >> yeah and I guess that's like the how do you They don't understand the consequences of just connecting something, right? They want to try new things and tools force you to do certain things. It becomes a bit too easy to connect your entire Google Drive. >> Maybe we could have like a little bit of a mentor shortcut here. If you would not send this to your friend, don't give it to a random company. >> This podcast episode is brought to you by SAS Talk, my personal favorite SAS event and community. The Europe event is taking place on the 14th and 15th of October in Dublin and it's going to be two full days of investor matchmaking talk from other founders and meetings which will be a huge focus this year as they're planning to have over 15,000 prescheduled meetings before the event. As a listener, you're getting an exclusive 30% discount through the link in the show notes. If your company is already doing above 1 million AR, you might even qualify for completely free ticket while they last, plus up to 400 reimbursement towards your travel expenses. Discounted and free tickets are limited. So feel free to pass now, hit the link, buy your ticket or get your free ticket and then I will see you in Dublin as Reddit will have a boot there as well. So make sure you get your ticket and then come back to this episode. Let's go back to the beginning because we're talking about AI and inbound, right? What do you think? It can mean a lot of things, right? You talking about generating content on LinkedIn, but it could also be the LLMs showing results. What do you think? >> I love it. When we are talking about inbound, we first have to acknowledge that algorithmically, my go-to channel usually is LinkedIn, but I've been hearing things from Reddit and X as well, that algorithmically all the AI related content performs well, right? Whenever we are writing about AI, it's expected to go well. However, what you will see very soon is that you will get a bunch of AI generated content there. Why? Because people know that in their LinkedIn routine, for example, they should be first like 10 minute behaving as a human and doing like new commenting. For example, summarizing posts from other creators. Then they can have like their posts and they should engage with these comments. And then there is like the period of nurturing when they would supposed to go and have more conversation as well as keep on engaging with other people that in a normal founders workday would last approximately 3 to four hours. I know people working in legit businesses not content creators alone that are spending 3 to four hours a day on LinkedIn and I don't think it's the best use of their time. So what is like super interesting is to find these like placements for the automation, right? So again if we are extending it to a workflow that would only produce LinkedIn posts and do assistant assistance in engagement and just like post nurturing to actually generate some smart leads. I would first limit the project what could be very interesting especially for high tech companies. These are a couple of builds I'm doing with clients, but nothing that I can like really talk about this publicly yet. We have to do this together with a lot of training. Build a single knowledge base with everything you have like your call recordings with your like previous blog posts, webinar recordings, yada yada, and get this like writers, content creators going on. You could be connecting this to like research agents to pull in external intelligence in the system. So here we have external intelligence here like this knowledge base is internal intelligence. You could be bringing like those two data sources together but for the purpose of just like empowering marketing to write legitimate blog and LinkedIn post is a minimal viable deliverable. Everybody is doing this with Chad GPT. Let's adopt the logic garbage in garbage out. If I ask with a poor prompt Chad GPT to write me a blog post this ain't working. Especially if I'm working in compliance regulations industries and my marketer there is like somebody who just came from college maybe from a different country that is not a domain expert right so the first job to be done would literally be to bring in knowledge sources into the single like knowledge base database however you want to call it and have good inputs to your AI writers that you would purposely train with prompt and maybe also bringing additional intelligence. Next, it's about the word flows for just like distribution. And here I have a huge missing part in my process right now. To my best ability, I haven't been able to do anything beyond recommending design briefing in this workflow. I have tested like AI generated designs but usually it just breaks whereas some of my customers have been testing AI generated creatives very successfully with their advertising for my stuff for infographics and just like other let's say knowledge heavy materials I haven't seen good results myself maybe I am using the wrong type of AIS because there are like literally AIs that are trained to create like videos, educational videos for pharmaceutical companies based on a similar type of a setup that we are talking about right now. So maybe I don't know how to do this but to my best ability right now I haven't been able to tackle this. Now we have a complete asset. We have text that was generated by AI model of your choice. By now my Jupiter is well trained but most of my peers use blood for copyrightiting. It works better for them. I prompted it with just like a couple of best practices. So how it how long it should be, how it should be formatting, whites space, it's sourcing from my knowledge base. So I'm not writing something super stupid. Now I have these posts potentially a LinkedIn post. Then I think about publishing it and doing the LinkedIn routine. Publishing in LinkedIn is very tricky because if you just set it and forget it, don't post and ghost. This is not the best practice. A majority of people manually do the posting. So the posting set the post setup and then like this engagement routine here is where things at the current stage of this workflow could be very divided. So there there are people who love AI generated comments and they're using them all the time and sometimes I am tricked myself that these comments are coming from like really really person like a technical expert but these are usually comments that are trained on your language and actually have some sort of like basis. These are not comments such as what a great company congratulations I agree that leadership is important. Right? So again, garbage in, garbage out. Commenting could be potentially automated, but you have to be careful with inputs. And then outbound is automated. Like I don't know a single person who would do outbound manually by now. we want to have is another like AI assisted workflow or like automation that would literally yeah extract those leads do the research on these leads achieve an ICP scoring process something like that and at the end help us shape the message. Now I would still as a human like to be able to edit the message and edit the comment before it is being posted. I also think that right now in Europe and you're more familiar with it because I mainly work with the US that you cannot really like just be pushing this AI generated stuff because this is not legal anymore if I'm not mistaken. Yeah, allegedly allegedly you cannot post on behalf of people. This is what I heard and I have seen some commenting tools even like shutting down their business for that one. Tapio is still like up and running. I don't know how but they are. So the thing is that from there onwards I could be connecting this input to the process. So my domain knowledge like assets that I have towards a tangible business opportunity because outbound I'm not working like on my LinkedIn post and on my post because I would be bored and this would be like super awesome and inspiring for me. It is sometimes but it has a business function to it, right? So it's generating my pipeline and if I'm just like there passively waiting for people to say hi you're awesome let's work together I would be waiting for a very long time or I wouldn't even be able to escape my team so I have to make sure that I'm doing what is called social selling I call it like signal based outbound which is one of the signals why somebody would buy for you and yeah this is currently what I have been thinking now that has been like literally just a workflow for LinkedIn potentially that could be done for other content marketer jobs. But where I have problems right now is seriously with design with just like making sure that the system is properly trained because if this would be like product and I have seen this like seriously I told people at least do like a project on chat GPT put a couple of your assets there and then look I will give you prompts it's not a problem just like start using it they were too lazy to upload assets they didn't know what assets to use how to edit this stuff and then they ended up just like J the first mistake is to accept the first output it offers. The second mistake is not to do any human editing because there are little things shutters like symbols that it's using some sort of spacing right and if you know any of these tools you will see like from a mile what is AI generated we need to avoid that >> I think the eyes are not there yet to really make the designs you make them like the infographics you have a bit more attention to detail than most visuals out there I think so in your case it's going to be really hard to create them I Yeah, we can share a couple of links to the episode like a partner who's doing AI generated creatives for LinkedIn ads that are outperforming marketer generated briefing. We can share how Amos from Swan AI so it used to be SDR now it's a GTM engineer is doing research and lead qualification with their agents. So he has a couple of like independent agents going on right there. We can share like this article how I think about this inbound system for now the setups that we are testing with my clients like this is super interesting to explore but as everything you have to adjust it to your processes right so whenever we start this conversation even on like done simple stuff such as inbound because everybody's more or less doing like same type of workflow you will find nuances you need to start by mapping your workflows you need to make sure to realize that you have like still have to do some some human resourcing and onboarding into that and yeah I think that currently we are here to the best of my knowledge. Yeah. And when you map out the workflow, right? And then when you look at the workflow, like how do you determine where does it need human intervention? Where do you need to supervise it? Because you mentioned for example LinkedIn, the dashes, the spacing, how do you determine what needs your input? >> Even when I'm thinking about outsourcing this, right? So what is something that a VA could do for me? Because at this stage, most AI implementations are still there there with junior/VAS. We have been like a little bit disappointed. in marketing with CH GPT five updates but I'm thinking in a way where would the type of work that I would like to get rid of where do I think that as a human I'm not creating huge added value this is a bit of a strategy right what are your strengths if you are like super good seller of course like if you are selling something expensive I would do social selling myself but if I'm selling some crap like webinar things or something like that that's the first thing for automation because I'm copy pasting messages but come on >> yeah Yeah. And maybe a different question. We have a lot of SAS founders. They have employees, right? They probably want to have their employees using AI, but what advice would you give for them as in as in because we talked about security, of course, like connecting the tools actually, for example, be able to upload the the things you provided to a client and not even doing that. like how do you help them to start leveraging AI and not think about it's going to replace my job but it's actually going to as you mentioned like automate the the things you hate the most like how do you change the mindset >> this one is difficult for me as well because you know I have been marketer for like 15 years and I take like certain joy and certain pride into what I'm working on and of course like there were two stages of my relationship with just the mainstream tools I will use JGP as an example that your teeth is cool. Then I developed a taste for it. Now I never ever ever would accept the output that it is given to me. It would be a prompting work to get it perfect. I see myself more as a taste maker. But the thing just like in attitude wise is to start thinking as a founder what will not change. So what is super important a relationship with humans managing humans stakeholder management creative thinking to some extent some would say strategic thinking I really present it as what's the you absolutely hate what would you like to get rid of and how we can use AI in order to do that and then we come to just like this opportunity to have them trained right and I'm not promoting like that you should have an internal consultant or hackathon maybe your culture is like build their culture, assign them tools and time in order to start thinking and make them feel psychologically safe. This is easier said than done. But as business owners, we are doing ourselves a great disfavor if we are just like thinking, haha, I no longer have to hire juniors. So everything will be like super AI generated because we're not bringing in new talent to the business. They think differently every 10 years. Just like human wise, I work with people who are 10 years older than me and then I work with people who are 10 years younger than me. And just like us working together, there is something beautiful to it. Everybody brings their own set of experience, their own set of ideas. And just like it's different to work with humans than AIS because with AIS, I'm still like kind of constrained with my imagination. What can they do right at the moment? They are following our instructions. So I really think that this big lips, big steps happens when human think. And there is another like component to it. I would tell it as it is. I would say like this is here to stay. We had to learn as an organization. I would probably compare it with how my mom had to learn how to use a computer which was super fun. She still struggles sometimes. But yeah, it's here. These are the tools we are using right now. These are just like everybody's using these tools. We have to let's figure it out how. >> Nice. Nice. When we started >> that would be super interesting to just like hear it from you as well. Probably your developers did not resist tools or did they um the business phase. So we ended up like hiring an agency who could help us set up the workflows and then we kind of had them create things first before I I introduced it back to the to the team. So that's one thing, right? So at least the the learning curve is a bit differently that we already have something working and then we can see okay well how does it work does it actually work so we don't have to go through all that that hassle but for example like we did not connect our code to AI or things like that so there's still limitations there right like we're not just going to go rogue on on everything >> I have huge reservations towards doing that as well I don't know I know why technically we know why but also like health information What stages you meet? If SAS was scary, this is scarier. >> Yeah, exactly. It's really nice. For example, I'm non-technical. So nowadays, >> you're not technical. I didn't know. >> No, maybe pretend to be, but >> probably the glasses. No. >> No, but now I can at least build a prototype and show what I want. Maybe iterate like 20 times >> because it keep all the time. That's that's really nice for me. And now that we are thinking inbuilt AIS in the tools, I'm doing prototyping in mirror which we both work with. I have been delighted with how it's creating those lowfi prototypes for my designers. I mean just explore it but have the courage to just like take it for a spin. What I like about what you're saying is you're controlled and engineered. You're the architect of this pilot. So you could illustrate directly how they benefit and how it's connected with their workflows because Yeah. like when my dog should get vaccinated. AI agents are fun to build but practically useless. >> Yesterday we I organized a SAS local in Amsterdam and we had the CEO of Bau chatting and he even mentioned during his holiday he was prototyping and building pro prototypes with Miro and Love Ball as well where he was basically building things during his holiday to come back and have new ideas to the team. They have 1,700 people. I thought it was pretty crazy to hear. Seriously, from the co's perspective, what I don't like is those people shouting out on LinkedIn like, "I fired seven people and now somebody that I paid 20 years can do the job of seven people." I just think it's dumb and shortsighted because at the end of the day, as long as humans are transacting with humans, we will find ways to keep ourselves occupied. I don't think it makes leaders look good. >> Exactly. We're going to start wrapping things up. I have two final questions. We spoke almost two years ago. We didn't foresee the future back then, but let's see if we can see foresee the future this time. What should founders prepare for the next two years in in your opinion? >> To really like embrace this AI in your organizations. This is not the next crypto. This is not going away. But to be sober about this, right? To still keep your taste making, to adjust it to your specific business needs. This is something that I'm putting like on top of my agenda for running my company as well. We're sitting on a big opportunity. Cards are being shift changed shifted. So yeah, there are there are opportunities for new players everywhere and I would definitely pay an eye on this one and I am like this is where I'm putting money on the table as well. The second thing that I would like to encourage everybody to do is to think strategically. This will sound so stupid but like at the current stage that we are everything is changing so fast that it is really hard to find time and bandwidth to just like think about your business holistically. Whereas everybody is super pressured on productivity and on the hunt for the latest and greatest snacks. I do think that the beauty in my business happens when I have a lot of time on Sunday and it's raining outside where I can be just like exploring thinking freely reflecting on what was going on and make decisions at a heart rate. You are not fresh to react on something but couldn't really really really think how this is implement impacting you and your business. And the third thing that I would say is that we that we live in the most exciting times in the 15 years of my career. So have fun doing it. Be hands-on about this. Don't be afraid. You don't have to read or like listen to three more podcasts before you get something done with AI. So it's learning by doing, having fun with it, and as we said very nicely, being very cautious with what informations do you put the tools that you don't trust and know. Okay. >> Yeah. And I think that's something we keep have to keep mentioning. You already answered these questions in the past, but you might have different answers now. What kind of advice would you give a SAS founder who's now just starting out in this era and and on their way growing to 10K MR? Learn how to sell because the first control prototypes you will probably have to either like acquire from warm outreach or beat introductions from investors friends or just like if you have the possibility to do outbound in your industry either or LinkedIn or email that would be amazing. So usually this is the fastest and the most secure way how we can just like get our foot in the door to do some pilots. The second one is that pricing is getting increasingly interesting. So now everybody is doing like this credit system. But then when you think about this from the buyer perspective, I don't know how much exactly it's going to cost me to book 50 meetings with human. I know with this AI agents burning random credits if it is working or not. I believe that result based pricing out outcome based pricing as well as just like the predictability of the costs will dominate the conversations in the next year. For now you will be able to present your implementation as a pilot. You can say there is a price per pilot. This is what's going to be deployed. This is how they can like see if it provides value for it. After like they experience the value, you can negotiate like a higher deal. Use the pilot logic for your pricing. It's an easier sell than if you are selling them something which is like super far-fetched and need like 13 people in the decision making unit to buy. Last but not least, don't give up too fast because as always there will be many things that are not working. It's increasingly hard now on AI saturated LinkedIn to have a fair share of organic human attention. So, some of the playbooks that have been working decently well before no longer work. So, you can either play the game, use the bunch of AI to simplify your life a little bit or find something that is working. Maybe it's going to be an old school channel. Maybe you will have to cold call customers. Maybe you will have to go and like present something in the fair. Maybe you will have to advertise in a freaking newsletter. Newsletter, how is it called? Newspaper. Yeah, the media, the printed stuff. So, yeah, just like keep your minds open and go where the audience is is the best advice that I can give you, right? >> Nice. Really gone old school to stand out in this market. I think the pricing was interesting. The pilot cases allow you to determine the cost which also allow you to determine the margins you actually have to sell your product for which is >> and really important. I think that we are both very much into this camp. So bootstrapping just like not operating with found sufficient enough to really like do the subsidiaries for subsidizing the adoption. Don't burn a bunch of AI model credits for some people that will never pay for the pro for the product to give you the wrong signals what you should be developing. So for me like payable client is the ultimate respectable product market fit. >> Nice. Let's assume we pass 10K M and we're going to make a huge step I know towards 10 million AR. What kind of advice would you have for SAS founders here? >> Think about ecosystem marketing. I have been in close touch with Clay and her and they have both used like agencies partnerships as go to market motions as a level of adoption. It literally like unlocked a big learning curve for them. Especially if you are like doing something which is complicated to implement and companies will not necessarily implement it themselves, right? Such as outbound tools or like the majority of people this is like a little bit of to an overkill. They already trust agencies. So one agency can bring you like 12 clients and this is a super super super super important lever. The other one would be actually a water on your meal. So in the age of deep AI fakes and in the age of like AI generated everything people still want to connect with people communities creator is influencers these are still like drastic hubs for now as for the mainstream media and like advertising space getting more intense intense I just think that we have this shortcut to trust that is getting increasingly important in B2B and last but not least use AI think about how AI is influencing each and every go to market motions that you are using and that is >> nice that that's a circle and I'm going to make another circle of this podcast. I think we recorded 40 minutes try to summarize it in 40 seconds and no AI is involved in this. So when we think about AI thinking workflows, ask yourself, what do I hate the most? Eliminate manual work. AI agents are changing everything. But earn the right to automate smaller pilot first. Do a PC, trust the automation, then fully automate. There are going to be custom risks to automating. Don't just connect all your tools to automations. Think about garbage in, garbage out. Ideally, build a knowledge base, external and internal. add your domain knowledge, create a GPT, prompt the AI to reuse it, and then think about like adding webinars, help centers, blog articles, sales calls, everything you have to be able to have the AI generate good content for you. When we talk about LinkedIn, when automating post, make sure you also engage with others as you mentioned. So have that window of of commenting and ideally do human edits. Don't simply copy paste because people will notice that it's actually AI generated. When we talk about the future, think strategically. Take time to reflect and make decisions with a steady heart rate. Implement AI. It's here to stay. So don't do adjust it to the needs you have. Revenue stages 10K MR. Learn how to sell. So I kind of go old school. Do paid pilot cases and do not give up too fast. 10 million AR. Think about ecosystem marketing. Trust is going to be really more yeah more important. And leverage AI. Quote I wanted to keep for last. Have fun doing things. Don't be afraid to learn by doing. Love it. That was like 40 minutes of podcast in two minutes. Awesome. Exactly. Well done. >> Exactly. Nice, nice, nice, nice. You mentioned a lot of articles. I read the articles before jumping into the podcast. So, we'll make sure to link to them if people want to get in contact with you. What is the best way to do so? >> Definitely LinkedIn. But if you can like please send me like some sort of note with connection requests because I'm being bombarded with outbound and this is like getting out of hand. So please, please, please show me that you are a human and I will immediately and with pleasure connect with you. >> Nice. Nice. We're going to link towards your your newsletter, but do you want to give it a quick plug? Where can they find it? >> It's knowledge subst GTM. You just like write GTM strategies substack to whatever search engine you are using and you got this. So we will link it to the episode and yeah this have been like super interesting for me on subst as well because as I am implementing this stuff I am also writing but I'm also learning from that are implementing so yeah that has been like a fun intellectual experience for me to be able to work learn and write >> nice exactly >> that order very importantly >> learn first then right so you can actually learn from from yeah or learn while writing as well cool we're going to add a poll to the podcast episode on Spotify. If you listen on Spotify, let us know what you thought of this episode and as general like leave us a review if you haven't so we can boost the algorithm so we can help more SAS founders. Thanks again for coming back, Maya. >> It's been fun. Always great to connect with you and I'm impressed by the consistency and the quality of this bot. >> Nice. Thanks. Thank you for watching this show of the Grow Your BB SAS podcast. You made it till the end so I think we can assume you like this content. If you did, give us a thumbs up, subscribe to the channel. If you like this content, feel free to reach out. If you want to sponsor the show, if you have a specific guest in mind, if you have a specific topic you want us to cover, reach out to me on LinkedIn. More than happy to take a look at it. If you want to know more about Reddit, feel free to reach out as well. But for now, have a great day and good luck growing your B2B SAS.
