# How to position your product

URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gu8WMjFe_cU
Collected: 2026-06-20

---

I'm going to teach you how to position your product. Positioning can feel pretty confusing. If you spent any amount of time on LinkedIn, you've probably seen positioning frameworks from people like Andy Rascin. Maybe read the positioning book by Al Ree and Jack Trout. But it all feels like kind of a dark art. Since we started our consultancy, we've had the chance to position over 500 B2B software companies. And what we've realized, what seemed very complex is actually relatively simple. There are essentially three core strategies. By the end of this video, you will understand all three strategies and have a good sense of which one is right for your business. Let's get started. Strategy one, position in a mature category. With this strategy, you're putting yourself in an existing bucket and saying, "Here's why we're better than all the other vendors in that same category." When we say a category is mature, we mean there are established vendors, clear buying criteria, dedicated communities, and conferences, and a shared vocabulary that the market, companies, and influencers all recognize. I want to be clear that maturity does not indicate size. Certain categories are just much larger than others. And we measure the size of a category pretty conservatively. It's effectively the total revenue of all the companies that claim that category name. Now, what are the advantages of the strategy? For one, the mind share and the budget already exist. People buy the software every single year. If they move from one company to another, they'll likely buy it again. And for all the companies that are on a subscription, they're effectively rebying it every single month, which means you don't have to educate the buyer because it's a mature category. You don't have to waste any effort explaining what it does, how it works. You get to come in and ride in the coattails of other people who did that upfunnel marketing work a long time ago, and basically say, "Here's why we're better than the other vendors." Now, what are the risks of this strategy? For one, the bigger the category, the bigger the competition. Think of it like a shelf at the store. The market leaders, they get the bulk of the shelf space. I'm at our local grocery store. I'm in the cereal aisle and you can see as I walk down here, General Mills, General Mills, General Mills, General Mills, post, post, post, post, post. The market leaders are getting all the shelf space and then relegated to the very end, we've got these special guys like Magic Spoon and Three Wishes. Who do you think gets the bulk of the business? Now, why would you take this strategy? For one, maybe you're an incredibly ambitious founder and you believe you have some sort of product or distribution advantage that will let you take on the market leader headto-head for the entire category. Think of someone like Dylan Field of Figma. At only 23 years old, he sought to take down Adobe. The second reason you'd maybe pick this strategy is you believe that there is an underserved segment that you could meet the needs of better than the market leaders. Great example of this is Duck. Go. Duck. Go is a search engine and you might think, who would ever want to take on Google? But Duck.Go go is not interested in the entire market for search engines. They're primarily focused on privacy-minded individuals. And so, their differentiation against Google is very, very strong. They make the pitch, "We will never steal your data." This is something Google will never say. Their entire business model is predicated on capturing data from the users. And while Duck Go's message might not really matter to someone who isn't very privacy-minded, it is very, very compelling for that smaller, underserved segment. And this subsegment is actually pretty big. Analysts estimate that Duck.Go go does a 100 million in AR. Okay. Strategy two. You position your product in an immature category. In this case, the category exists, but it's new and nent. It's mainly used by the early adopters, and the rest of the potential market. All the people who could use this category have probably not heard of it yet. This strategy has its own advantages. For one, you're targeting green field customers. You don't have to worry at all about your vendor level competition, at least not in how you message the product to customers. Yes, it is a race to see who can reach these customers first, you or maybe the other people of your size. But from the customer's perspective, they've never heard of this category and thus they've never heard any of those other vendors. You'll be pitching the category to them for the first time, which means you could just focus your messaging on how you solve their specific problem. A great example is Docuine. They went to market in the category of e signature, but they targeted businesses that were primarily using pen and paper for all their contracts. They came in and introduced a new type of tool. Again, not new in the absolute, but new to that specific group of customers. And as a result, they popularized and massively grew the category. Second, some categories attract a lot of VC attention and funding. Accelerators like Y Combinator will often put out calls for certain types of startups. For example, here they're looking for businesses that are AI native discovery engines, a new category that you've probably never heard of, but they believe is going to grow to massive heights. By placing yourself in one of these buckets, you inherit that hype and ideally some of the funding. >> Now, what are the risks of this strategy? For one, you're introducing a solution to people who have never heard of it. The advantage is also the risk. You'll be committing to a go to market motion that is primarily educational. That usually means longer sales cycles and fighting for a budget line item that does not exist yet. If you have a CRO that is pushing for short-term growth goals, this strategy is not going to work. It is a longerterm play and very risky depending on your runway. Second, you inherit the market's opinion of the category for better or for worse. Take AI SDRs. When this category hit the scene, everybody was stoked on using AI for prospecting. Then there was a company called Artisan that started running ads that said, "Stop hiring humans," which immediately triggered a massive backlash. And not just against Artisan, but against anyone who called themselves an AISTR. It got so crazy that Bernie Sanders brought this up to Joe Rogan on his podcast. >> There are signs, I don't know if you've seen them, signs advertising from from AI companies, don't hire humans, something like that. Did you see posted? >> That's demonic. >> If you hitched your wagon to that category, you've now inherited all that negative press. And third, some categories fizzle just as fast as they grow. Not long ago, the hot category was NFTTS. Celebrities were buying them for hundreds of thousands of dollars. Now they're effectively worthless. Try getting funding for an NFT startup in 2026. But there are some compelling reasons why you would choose this strategy. For one, you personally believe that this category is going to become massively successful with your help. A second reason is that you believe you actually have the tools and capabilities in house to educate the market. If you're going to take this strategy, you live and breathe marketing and you have the people, the patience, and the runway to pull it off. Some examples of companies that took strategy two, Dropbox, Google, One Password, and finally, strategy three, you've positioned to create a new category. This last strategy is for startups that refuse to adopt anyone else's label and seek to build their own from scratch. Now, this strategy has some powerful advantages. For one, you get to decide the price of the product and the size of the problem that the category is going to solve. Maybe you scope the category around a very small job to be done like Calendarly with scheduling or fixer with email. Or maybe you take on a much larger companywide initiative like Vanta did with getting sock 2 compliant or work OS with helping companies become enterprise ready. Second, you get a big head start at distribution because you've given the market time to associate your brand with this new category of software. This strategy, just like the others, has significant risks. For one, you have to pick the right size job to be done, which is actually a lot harder than it sounds. Now, a job to be done is basically a fancy marketing term that just means a product's use case. What people use this product to do, the tasks, the workflows, the initiatives that it supports. You may believe that your product has the potential to tackle a massive multi-ep departmentwide enterprise use case, but the bigger the use case, the vagger the claims start to become. Lots of sales tech companies have gone to market around the use case of growing the company's revenue. But if I'm a potential customer of your product and you tell me that the product is going to grow my revenue, I still have no idea what the product is or does. I have no idea which tool that I have today it would replace, where it would fit in, how it would work. It's so vague to almost be meaningless. A second significant risk is that the first to market is not always the winner. Verbbo started 13 years before Airbnb and Airbnb ultimately won the market. Alt Vista was the first search engine, but Google ended up winning the category. If you create a category that starts to get significant commercial success, you can bet that a much larger company will come in with more money and more distribution and simply offer the product at a cheaper price. This is exactly what happened with Microsoft Teams and Slack. Slack had this massive head start. Then Microsoft created Teams and bundled it with their Office 365 suite, offering it essentially for free. Because Microsoft is so deeply penetrated across all of the enterprise, they all decided to just adopt it because it was easier to go with an existing vendor than to onboard a brand new one. And third, people may simply reject the label of the new category that you come up with. A lot of companies will claim that they have created a brand new category, but when customers see it, it just looks like something else that already exists. We watch this play out with Docuine when they rebranded as intelligent agreement management. They didn't really change anything about the product, and so people just ridiculed them mercilessly. They spent millions of dollars trying to create this new category. And because they received so much criticism, they ultimately just pivoted back to what they were before. Now, why would you choose this strategy? For one, you believe that putting your product in any existing category, would hurt it more than help it. Most products, even the very innovative ones, could theoretically fit in an existing bucket. It might just not be a nice and clean fit. Think of the iPhone. Is it really a phone? It shares about 2% of the functionality, calling and texting, and then it does a ton of other stuff that traditional phones cannot do. But for Steve Jobs, it still made sense to call it a phone because the market was so big and the iPhone was so differentiated. But sometimes that's just not the case. Gong could have maybe called themselves like a screen recorder, but that product category is so far removed like conceptually in the mind of a sales leader who might be thinking about getting gong. Another reason you might adopt this strategy is that you have very deep pockets. All that education sustained over a very long period of time is really expensive. Hold on a second. Can I get the cheesy gordita crunch? Okay. >> And I'll do a small Baja blast. >> Okay. >> So often times this strategy is only available to the highest funded VC back companies. Thank you. >> I hope you found this video helpful.
