# Ranking YCombinator Homepages

URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xjrpOsixMrA
Collected: 2026-06-20

---

Let's review some websites today. We're going to be looking at a couple of companies that went through Y Combinator back in summer 2025. I'm going to start here with a company called Paloma. When you see this website, it almost looks like something I would make up as a joke. Purpose-built software for companies that make real things. It's about as vague as you could possibly get. Sounds almost like a software dev shop. Not sure if that's what they're going for. The tools your operations team would build themselves if they had the engineers were those engineers. So in fact, it may be some type of custom software agency specifically around operations. The challenge is operations is an extremely broad concept. So if I'm someone in their ICP, it will be hard for me to know that I am in their ICP. There's really nothing to latch on to. We don't really have a category that we can put them in. It doesn't say that they're a consultancy or dev shop or anything along those lines. And we really don't have a job to be done or a use case of when I would actually reach out to a business like this. So I can assume that most of their business, if they have customers at this point, are probably through founder network VCs making intros to companies that they could work with. If they want scalable growth, they are going to have to pick something to anchor this positioning on. So all in all, I would say this is a pretty unclear positioning strategy and an unclear website as a consequence of that. I'll give it two out of five. All right, next on the list, Uplift AI. Finally, AI voices that sound like Pakistan. Purpose-built for social media, dubbing, and voice agents. This to me exponentially clearer. We actually are getting some real positioning work happening right away. We're going after a group that is aware of the concept of AI voices that has probably used them or experienced them. So slightly more mature audience, people who know the shortcomings of the AI models out there and are looking specifically for voices that will mirror the language of, you know, some of these Middle Eastern countries. To me, this is an incredibly clear message. It's very very differentiated especially if people are in that bucket running into those problems and we have some specific use cases purpose-built for social media dubbing and voice agents. I would give this probably a four out of five maybe four and a half out of five. Next we have burnt automate food distribution. Deploy AI agents across teams to eliminate manual work and scale without adding headcount. If we just look at this body sentence this is essentially pitching the category of AI agents to people who have never heard of AI agents. Now, I would be surprised if the people that they are pitching don't already know what AI agents are and don't already know that this is essentially the value proposition of the category itself. Since we are connecting it to this broader use case of automating food distribution, I think it could be very helpful to tie it more to that. Again, these are very generic general statements around eliminating manual work. Well, what does that mean? And I'm a little bit confused because when I think of food distribution, obviously I'm not the ICP of this company, I'm imagining actually bringing the food places. And so if I heard that AI was going to automate the food distribution, I would imagine it's like robots or something. But AI agents are effectively software. So I'm not sure how the software could automate the actual distribution of the food. Which makes me think perhaps they are overstating the claim just a little bit. I think they need to decide, are we going after people who do not know about AI agents and we are introducing the category to them or are they going after businesses that kind of already know they exist and maybe would be thinking about which ones they're going to get or maybe even already have some sort of AI agent deployment. I would give them a three out of five. Next, we have event, another AI agent company that is industry focused. So, we see transform industrial commerce with AI. Streamline order processing, automate manual workflows, and enhance customer engagement. Again, we have the same identical positioning conundrum. Are they going after people who do not know what AI agents are and introducing this category to them for the first time? Or are they going after people who know what they are and would need an answer of, well, why would I pick your agents over the hundred others that are being pitched to me all the time? Again, I'm not in their bucket. I would imagine that they are also getting pitched AI agents probably from the big guys. And they have a great opportunity to show their differentiation of why they're agents over these other ones. Instead, we are given incredibly generic statements. Streamline order processing, automate manual workflows, enhance customer engagement. Again, these could apply to any single AI company doing agents in the world right now. Probably similar to the last one. Three out of five. The last one of this batch. Outro. Outro. Outro. Automated hiring. Unmatched talent all with AI. Find vet and hire top IC talent faster and smarter with AI. Here it's a little bit confusing who this is being sold to. Is this being sold to internal recruiters, external recruiters? Maybe all of the above. Maybe that doesn't matter. But again, nothing in the message is really showing me, is this something new? Is this something better that already existed? Is this an improvement on a category, a brand new type of software? My brain is looking for something to anchor all this messaging and positioning on. I'm trying to understand where you fit in the broader ecosystem of things that I would already know. And when I say I, I mean a potential buyer of this software. So, I see something around hiring, getting talent, but again, what exactly does that mean? This doesn't really tell me enough to actually understand the argument that they're making or why they are different or what they would replace. Not very differentiated from how they're talking about it. I would say probably three out of five. All in all, these companies could probably get exponentially clearer websites if they clarify the positioning strategy, which comes down to making difficult decisions around who are we really for. Is it more for this group or more for that group? And because of that kind of wishy-washy strategy, you end up with a message that is also just kind of vague and uninspiring. If you found this helpful, give me a follow. And if you need help with your positioning, go to fletchpm.com.
