# Top 3 Priorities When Starting A New Business

URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HNAgxVeyNhk
Collected: 2026-06-20

---

What's up, everyone? Welcome back
to another episode of The Crazy Ones. This is Alex and I'm back with a founder's
journal style episode. Today
I am going to talk about my content agency that I started because of an accidental
tweet that created a business
and now is a very real business that's very much really happening. So I'm going to talk through where the business is today. The priorities,
the biggest roadblocks, the questions
I'm thinking most about. And my goal of this episode is for you to be able to see what kind of the thought process
is around an early stage business
and how things are prioritized, how
things are worked on. And hopefully
this helps inform how you're building
your business. So let's hop into it. What's up, everyone? I'm Alex Lieberman. This is Jesse Fuji and this is the crazy ones. Don't
you just love the sweet sound of success? Oh, that's the sound of another sale on Shopify. A tiny business dream
becoming a reality. Shopify is the commerce platform, revolutionizing millions of businesses
worldwide. Whether you're selling
vintage concert posters or handmade Faberge
eggs. Shopify makes selling online and in-person as simple as saying checking packed with industry leading tools. Shopify gives you complete control over your business
and your brand without having to learn any new skills
in design or code. And get this Shopify covers tons of sales channels. You can even sell across TikTok,
Facebook and Instagram. New to selling Shopify offers 24 seven help and an extensive business
course library, so you'll feel supported every step of the way. Now it's your turn
to get serious about selling
and try Shopify today. Sign up for a $1 per month trial period at Shopify dot com slash crazy ones all lowercase. That's Shopify dot com slash crazy ones, Shopify dot com slash crazy ones. I've talked about this content agency a little bit in previous
episodes, but if you don't know
about it, I'm going to just provide
a quick recap. Basically, on March 21st of 2023, I put out a tweet, and you have to understand, when I tweet or when I post
something on LinkedIn, I don't have this
like rigorous strategy where I have like
content pillars and then I'm putting out content and then I'm
looking at my analytics and then I'm not doing all this stuff
for my personal brand. I'm very much
just firing from the hip. I fired
a tweet from the hip, I think, because I saw some founder who had been focusing on their content brand over
the last few months. They saw a ton
of great results. They were seeing business
results. And I was like, People are going to start
waking up to the fact that when you build
a trusted audience as a founder
or as an executive, it has very valuable implications and creates
amazing optionality for your business. And so the idea in
my mind was like, there should be an agency
that does this. So I literally just wrote, If the following apply to you, DM me and I wrote, You're a founder and executive. You believe deeply
in building personal brand. You don't have the time
or skill to create content
and grow your brand, and you'd pay 5 to $10000
per month to have a skilled content creator
build your personal brand. That's it. And I ended up
getting 75 DMS from executives,
CEOs, founders, VCs saying, Hey,
I would love this service. I had demand for a business
that literally I hadn't thought anything
about 10 minutes prior. So then what I did is
I did a follow up tweet where I was like,
Oh shit, Now I have people who want
a ghostwriting service, but I don't have any
ghostwriters because I'm
not going to do it myself. So then I put out a tweet for ghostwriter saying, Hey, I have 75 clients,
I need writers for them. Apply
here to be a ghostwriter. And as of recording this, I have 234 ghostwriting applications. So all of a sudden
I now have a ghostwriting business. I have the amount of demand
I have for this business can make it a multimillion
dollar business as is. And so now I'm kind of like, this is the definition
of building the plane as it's flying. So I want to just give you some facts of where
the business is today since putting out
those tweets, what my priorities are and kind
of the biggest questions I'm asking myself
as I'm building this. First of all, where we are today is this business
does not have a name. It does not have a logo, except they did actually try
an AI tool to create a logo and it did a fantastic job. It's what was it called? I think it was. Yeah. Logo icon. I came up with a name
for the business. I don't think
I'm going to be using it because I think there are already businesses
with this name. I was going to call it
niche media and the logo that it created is actually incredible. Like way better than I could build myself. So that was pretty cool. But no logo, no name not incorporated. So this business is very much is like an unofficial, unstructured, non-legal, existing agency
at the moment. Right now
I have three clients purposefully, I have one copywriter handling all three of these clients. This copywriter is someone who I knew previously. It's someone who left their full time job to copyright
full time. These three clients are paying me between 4000 and $8,000 a month. I give an introductory price to the initial client
for 4000 just because I didn't care
about profit at all. I passed through the entire cost of the client to the ghostwriter
because my view is I just want to get
the process down. And just so you have a sense
of who these first clients are, first client I brought on is a public company CEO. He's a CEO of a micro-cap stock on the Nasdaq. He has a holding company
of media and ecommerce businesses that he's acquired. He started working with the agency a week and a half ago. The next client is a VC backed founder
whose business provides SAS or software as a service for flooring. Business is very specific,
but that gets me very excited about the niche
that he can own. And the third client is an entrepreneur
who owns a seven figure self-storage data company. Basically, just the way I'm thinking through
these clients is there is a short term goal
for all of these clients. So for the first one, it's being known as the digital holding company guy. For the second one, it's
being known as the vertical software
as a service guy. For the third one,
it's being known as a self-storage expert. So my goal is to build up
their authority in their niche over
the first three months and then in the second
three months or months, 3 to 6. That's
when I want to really start actually generating
business results for. So for the first
client, it's raising capital or finding
businesses to buy. Since he has a holding company of companies
they acquire for the second client, the the flooring software guy, it's finding customers
for his business and for the third guy still trying to figure it out,
but it's likely going to be investors for his
self-storage company. Other just level set up
where we're at, we're at, as I said, we have 234 applications for copywriters. I have 30 applications
for CEOs, which I'm going to talk
about in a second, and I'm going to talk to your priorities now. So I basically have three priorities that are my only focus for this business right now. Providing number one is to create a scalable, consistent quality content process. Said differently. I want to make sure there is
a system that allows me to have $1,000,000 per year of cash flow. So a profit, which means $4,000 of profit per client per month, which means I need 28
clients. I need to make sure there's a content system that allows me to scale outside
of this single ghostwriter. Like I said, I have three
clients right now. They're all being serviced
by this one ghostwriter. The reason I haven't
taken on any more clients right now is I'm not trying to maximize profit
at the moment. I am trying to make sure
we build a a process of getting content
from our client, creating great content, and creating leverage
for our ghostwriter so that we can get to 28 clients minimum and the machine
doesn't break. And so the things
that I'm thinking about are what are going to be
all the ways that we get great stories and great rich specific content from our clients
for their niche. What are the the different responsibilities
we're going to offload from our ghostwriters
and give to someone who acts as kind of a quote
unquote account manager? Because my concern is that there are only so many great ghostwriters in the world, and I would say historically ghostwriters
could only service maybe three or four clients. And I want to create
a more automated process such that ghost writers can service 10 to 15 clients
and the quality of the content
doesn't change at all. And to me, you do that through someone serving
as an account manager, you having more automations
and leveraging AI for the initial drafting of client of content. So that's priority
number one. That's what I'm focusing
probably 75% of my time on with
this business is a scalable, consistent quality
content process. So we can get to 28 clients or $1,000,000 in cash flow a year and the machine doesn't
break at all. And I'd like for it
to actually scale while beyond
that second priority is having
a bench of ghostwriters that can support
the 28 clients. So this current ghostwriter
I'm working with I think can support my first five clients. I want to have a bench of eight other ghostwriters
that I've vetted that whose work
I trust deeply, who kind of
I can always pull from as I'm onboarding
new clients. So if I get eight
ghostwriters I trust, then I know I can support 28 clients worth of demand. So that's priority
number two. And then priority
number three is finding a CEO to run this business. You know,
people wonder like, you're
just starting this business now, why do you want to find
a CEO? There's two reasons. One is because as I've talked to
in the past, I have an aspiration
to start multi many businesses because I think
that best suits the way my brain works
and the diversity of experience that I want in building companies. The second reason
is with this business, with this
ghostwriting agency, I think there are two things that I am most uniquely qualified to do. I think the first thing is generating demand, meaning
I think that just by me creating content on Twitter
and LinkedIn, I can generate unlimited or close to unlimited demand from clients such that clients should never be the bottleneck. In fact, like supplier ghostwriter
should be the bottleneck. And so to me, every minute
I spend being the CEO and running this business is a minute. I'm not spending
creating content on Twitter or LinkedIn
to generate demand. And then the second thing
that I think I'm uniquely qualified to do is to stay
super close to the product and the product
being the content that we create
for our clients and making sure that it continues to stay
high quality at scale so that we're not
churning through clients. Because if clients
are only staying for a month or two months
or three months, this entire business
breaks down. And so I'm working on finding a CEO
to run this business. I 30 people apply. There are seven who I am definitely interested in and I want to send set up conversations with. You know,
crypto conversations are too often about who's up
and who's down and all of the drama
on Twitter. But most conversations
about crypto mess, how it's
going to change everything, which is why I recommend
listening to the brand new podcast validated from the Salon Foundation. Each week on validated host Austin Fedora pushes aside hype cycles
and financial advice to bring you conversations about the biggest ideas
shaping the Internet. Look,
when it comes to blockchain, the thing
people talk about most, the price is actually the least interesting part, which is why Validated
stands out because it explores
the philosophical and technological questions about cryptocurrency and FTX, his defi and beyond,
all while sharing stellar perspectives
from some of the world's leading web3 journalists, analysts and experts. So whether you're
a technology enthusiast, just beginning your crypto journey or already active in Web3 don't miss out follow validated on Apple Podcasts, Spotify or wherever
you get your podcasts and let them know
I sent you. Let's
hear it for the little wins, like holding a yoga pose for a few seconds longer than last time
and realizing your own strength
this summer. Think wants to help you
accomplish even more by fueling your mind and body think is helping you
transform positive thoughts
into positive action. Boost your mental
and emotional strength by joining their Stronger
Than You Think series on Instagram and TikTok. Connect with other like minded people
through virtual yoga, guided meditation and daily mindfulness practices
and treat yourself to thoughtful nutrition with things
High protein bars Follow these Stronger Than You Think
series for your chance to be featured on things
social channels. You could even win samples of new think bar flavors, high protein brownie crunch, and Keto Chocolate
peanut butter pie get started at stronger
than you think. Dot info
slash the crazy ones that's stronger
than you think. Dot info
slash the crazy ones. Now what are the biggest hurdles that I see coming up with this business? I'm going to talk about
these hurdles in terms of priority or how soon I see us facing these as challenges. So the first big hurdle
is a supply constraint. As I mentioned, there are a lot
of ghostwrite ers and there are a lot of bad
ghostwriters. The ghostwriters that I work with
have to be great because of the content isn't great for our clients. Then we have a high
churn agency that's not actually
a business. And so to me,
I have to ask myself how do I make sure that I have enough
good ghostwriters? And I think the answer is I need to find good ghostwriters
that the world hasn't yet found yet,
like I need to unlock new supply
that hasn't been found. And I have a few ideas
for where I can find great supply. The other thing I have to do is to make sure
that great ghostwriters who come and work through my agency don't churn, don't
leave the agency and start their own business. And I think the way to do
that is I have to provide enough of a service
to these ghostwriters in terms of giving them
enough leverage, handle way more clients
than they could handle on their own, doing all the account
management in the non creative stuff
that they don't enjoy doing, handling billing and all the back office
stuff. Basically, my product for ghostwriters has to be robust enough that they view the agencies cut my cut fair and worth them giving up. So that's the first
big challenge that I'm thinking about. The second one is client churn, meaning content is in inevitably a long game. I've been creating content on LinkedIn
for the last nine years. I've been creating content
on Twitter for four years. It takes a lot of time for your content
to drive our ROI. And so I think the way
that you avoid churning clients is first you need to set
realistic short term goals. You need to lock clients in for long enough contracts to be able
to see any results. So I think moving forward three month contracts are going to be the minimum
for clients and I think we need to focus
their content and their niche around intermediate term, tangible business goals
that they want to hit. So set differently
for the person who has the vertical SAS flooring business. The intermediate goal that I want to hit for him is to generate customers, which are flooring
retailers, are flooring wholesalers that he can sell to. To me, if I can generate real business
every single month that are that the dollar value of that is orders of magnitude
greater than what he pays me
as an agency. He'll continue
to stay with the agency. Now it's called
the Danger Zone. The first three months,
because I don't think it's realistic to generate a ton of business
in the first three months. And so to me
it's about setting the right expectations of him becoming an authority in vertical SAS and flooring and focusing
more on impressions. DMS replies some of the softer metrics just in the first
three months. And then I think
the other way that you avoid client churn is you
focus on high dollar value clients,
meaning clients. If I generate business
results for them, their customers have high lifetime value. So it's easy to generate enough revenue for them that it is way more than the 8 to $10000
I charge them in a month. So mostly focusing on B2B clients. The third challenge, and this is the long
term challenge, but this is the ultimate goal with the agency, is my long term vision for this agency is basically I'm getting paid to build up authority,
an audience for executives in their specific measures to drive business for them. But the long term goal is to me,
the lottery tickets are I want to work with these founders and executives and VCs
who I'm helping build audience for and launch new businesses for them. So the the analog is like Nick Huber built up a huge audience on Twitter as sweaty startup. He was known
for self-storage content, and he was known
for kind of like boring business content. And now he's launched five or six new businesses for his audience
that he has on Twitter. He launched a cost
segregation business. I don't even know what cost
segregation is, but it's for his audience. He launched a property
insurance business. He launched an offshore assistant business, and his audience on Twitter is the best marketing and distribution channel
for all of these businesses. I want to build up the audiences
for the next Nick Huber, and then I want to launch businesses
off the back of their audiences. And I want to do it by testing ideas
for businesses with their audience before actually
launching them so we mitigate
the risk of there not being product
market fit. And, you know, I would say the challenges, our client's
going to be down to partner with me on businesses
that we launch on top of their audiences versus just doing it on their own. And to me,
the solve has to be enough to figure this out
long term, which is I need to convince clients that audience building is really hard and it's important enough that they want an audience
focused co-founder, almost like you think
about a technical co-founder involved
in whatever business they launch off
the back of their audience. So those are the three big challenges I'm thinking
about as a business constraint of supply. So not having enough
good ghostwriters, client churn in the early months and clients being down
to build businesses off the back of their audience
is long term. With me later today,
I actually have a call with my ghostwriter
and a potential CEO for the business, and they are going to be we're going to be trying
to refine the content process together
because, like I said, priority
number one is building a sustainable, scalable quality
content process. And so some of the questions that we're going
to be answering during this call are what do we want to ask
a client during their onboarding
conversation? How many posts
worth of content do we want from the client during this onboarding call? Where are the files
being stored? Are recapturing just audio or audio and video? Who is responsible
for the onboarding call? How often are we having
follow up interviews with our client to get more stories
from them? So those are
some of the examples. So that's where the business
sits today. As I mentioned,
there's a ton of demand. I'm really excited about it. The long term
vision is building audiences with hundreds of VCs,
founders using my ghostwriters and then building businesses on top of the audiences that we build
for these clients. And my three priorities right now are a scalable, consistent, quality
content process. Having
a bench of ghostwriters that can support 28 clients or $1,000,000
a year in profit and finding a CEO
to run this business. And so if you have
any questions about the content agency or if you want more episodes like this, just shoot me an email at the crazy ones
at Morning Broadcom. But I hope this was
instructive for you. I hope it gave you insight into kind of how my brain works through prioritization and tackling roadblocks in the early stages
of a business. And I will catch you next episode of The Crazy
Ones. Take it easy, everyone. Thank you guys so much for watching this episode
of The Crazy Ones. If you're an entrepreneur
or a builder and want more great startup
content, make sure to subscribe
on our YouTube channel or wherever
you get your podcasts.
