# Morning Brew's Co-founders Share Secrets Behind $75 Million Success

URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z2pV8F9B9JM
Collected: 2026-06-20

---

We say, you know what? What if Alex pitches and Austin walks around
with like a printed out Excel document basically and basically stares
people in the eyes until they give you
your email. And that's what we did. So I would spend twenty —
that’s like door to door sales though
for a newsletter list. I like it. I would walk around the big lecture hall, 500 people, and I’d
kind of just stand there. Give me your email. Give me your email. And we’d get, seriously. Did you get big on them,
like did you puff your chest up
and hand it to them be like give me your email? If I at the time,
if I spoke in front of 500 people,
I was getting 500 emails. Because I, you know, there's
the whole classic thing, like,
you know, the number two fear in life
is a public speaking. And number one is, is
or number one is public speaking, two is death
like people rather be in the in the casket than speaking at the eulogy. That was me at the time. And so I was like, well,
I'm going to do this, I need those emails. What's up, everyone? I'm Alex Lieberman. And I'm Sophia Amoruso. You know,
this is Jesse Pujji and this is The Crazy Ones. What's up, everyone? This is Alex
Lieberman, co-founder and chairman
of Morning Brew. And we were back with another episode of The Crazy
Ones, the best startup show on planet Earth. We're trying something a little bit
different today. My co-host, Jesse and Sofia are on a well-deserved break at the end of the year. And so if you're listening to or watching this episode, I believe it is January 3rd. So wishing you
a happy New Year and a ton of good things
to come. So here's
what we're trying today. My co-founder Austin and I have talked
about the morning Bruce story at length on other podcasts, but very rarely,
I don't even know if ever have we talked about our story together in a moderated conversation. And so that's what
we're going to be doing. We're going to be talking
about the journey of morning brew, the idea, the challenges, the wins,
what comes after the brew, what the business is
like now, the future of media. And to have us have
this conversation is our good friend
Sahil Bloom. Sahil is an investor. He's a writer, He's a prolific tweeter. He has done
all of the things and so we're so lucky
to be joined by him today. So I'm going to pass the mic
to you. Awesome. Well, thank you guys
so much for having me. I'm excited
to get to do this. I'm going to set one ground rule at the outset of this,
which is no PR bullshit responses to anything that goes on. So that's
the only ground rule. And other than that, I think
we can kick it right off. But excited,
too excited to be here. You know, I want to start with something that you guys both tweeted just recently the other day, which was a screenshot,
I think. Austin, you tweeted
at first it was a screenshot of an email with names blacked out. So I'm not going to ask you who who actually said it. It'll be in the show notes
and we'll share it. But basically
it was a rejection email from presumably an investor criticizing a few factors about the morning brew, in particular criticizing whether or not
it was ever going to be able to make any money,
any revenue. And what you tweeted
was basically like, look, if we had listened
to these people that were doubters
of the idea, we wouldn't be where
we're sitting today. So I want to start there. What's going
through your head when you guys are receiving presumably a bunch of emails like this back in 2015? Yeah, I can start. So in 2015 it morning Brew wasn't
a business, right? It was a a side project, a hobby, a fun thing just to stay up to
in the business world for ourselves
and help our friends. And one thing I remember
in the early days I was actually pretty
surprised about, and now I look back and I think it's awesome
was how relentless Alex was about getting in touch with everyone, right? Talking to people,
meeting people, whether it was advertisers,
investors, whatever. And Alex, it's a professor
in Michigan in the email and Alex
emailed the professor and most people had pretty good answers. Most people and we sat down
with most people in Michigan in the controversial clubs
and whatever, and we sent this email and we had heard that this guy,
this professor was a little abrasive and we definitely didn't expect to get that email. I don't blame him,
by the way. Like I think at the time we also didn't
think it was a business, or at least not a potential
big business. So I don't blame him. But that was only fuel
to the fire. Do you remember it
being fuel at the time though,
or was it just like a blow? Yeah, I mean, it's easy to call it
fuel in hindsight. You know, like, these type
of things are easy to say. Like, oh, yeah,
I knew I was going to keep grinding, whatever. Like Alexis Ohanian
has his with being called a rounding error
by the Yahoo! Team. This is kind of
your moment of that. Was it fuel at the time? It's so hard to know
how much is actually like revisionist history. Like even when we tell the original story
of Morning Brew and how it started, like the original insight, I oftentimes will ask myself the question, is that
the original story? Right? Because we've told it
so many times now that I forgot
there's there's some kind of principle
where it's like if you tell a false truth enough times that becomes the truth. And so, like,
I can remember actually what the thought was in late 2014 when I started writing this thing
and when Austin joined on. And so I would say for me, actually there was probably some fuel from people
saying no. And by
the way, this teacher, we're definitely not
just picking on this teacher because actually Alexis
Ohanian, he had replied to Austin tweet
and basically was like, I really like constructive rejections, which I totally agree
with, like this. This teacher was not a dick in the tweet
like he was constructive. He gave reasons for why he wouldn't invest for me. Actually,
when we were fundraising, the worst thing was like
family and friends
or people peripheral that would just string along these conversations and be like
three months of them saying, Hey, I'm going to look
at the materials tomorrow. Hey, I have this question. They would have you answer
all these questions and then after three months,
tell you that they didn't
want to invest like that was the worst. But yeah,
it was this teacher I remember, Mark Cuban,
We also asked him to invest, and I give so much
props to Mark because he is someone
that, irrespective of his success, he still emails
with founders at the earliest stages
all the time. But basically
he had a similar response to this teacher
where he was like, There are a ton
of newsletters. I don't get the difference. What's the differentiator? That was
the gist of what he said. I think that was the fuel for me actually. I think a fair bit of the fuel was people who I think doubted me or belittled me throughout
like middle school and high school,
and I felt a chip on my shoulder
from that for sure. And then I think a piece of
it also was just like, you know,
you guys know this, But I lost my dad actually
right before the brew started a week before
junior year of college. The brew started first semester
senior year at Michigan. And so there was I would say
that was actually the number one driver was this kind of just focus to create something of value. So kind of the Lieberman
household wouldn't have to worry again
because that was actually probably
the number one anxiety that was taking up space in my brain. I don't think I knew that. The timing connection
between between your father passing away and
the starting of the brew, which is a
really interesting insight. Were you like an entrepreneurial kid, like prior to your father
passing away? Had you always thought
you were going to start something
and go build something? Or do you think that
what ended up being a spark of wanting
to go create something with your name
attached to it? Yeah, it's funny. Like now I couldn't envision
doing anything but this. But now growing up, all I could
think about doing was being a trader
on Wall Street and an strange and the reason was, again,
that's what my parents did. So it wasn't like me
thinking on behalf of myself or what I knew I enjoyed
versus didn't enjoy. It was just like
my dad's a trader. That's what he does. My mom mom's a salesperson
at a bank. That's what she does. I just want to be like them. And so I actually thought it was the opposite
of independent thing. He was dependent
thinking for my whole life. I was for sure,
creative, growing up. Like I remember as early
as like first or second grade. This is like
the smallest thing. But I remember wanting to create a pen highlighter combo. They didn't sell those
at the time, so I snipped a pen in half
and I snipped a highlighter in half. I taped them in the middle and so I could both write notes and highlight
with the same instrument. And then at sleepaway camp, I had a shoe
shining business. So like, I liked tinkering. But no,
I never had the thought. Like, I'm going to go
start my own business, you know, like my co-host for the crazy ones,
Jesse Puig. Like his dad's
an entrepreneur with a travel agency. He always knew he was going to start something
that wasn't me. What about you, Austin? So I grew up in the suburbs
of Baltimore, and no one who I knew, no one's parents were in finance. Like I knew that Morgan
Stanley or Goldman
Sachs were growing up. But I went this very small private school. And so I went to the exact opposite
where I went to college. So I went to Michigan. I think you were similar,
similar private school. And from that moment
on, I was like, Oh, all the kids who look like me and sound like me are all going to investment
banking. Like that
was the thing at Michigan and so I kind of followed
the herd. I was a sheep
just following that. Was it
like a fraternity thing? Like,
I mean, where were you guys in fraternities And like they had a pipeline
to Wall Street or was it just all your friends
people? I mean, it was
it was a frat thing, but it was a business
school thing. Okay. Right. Like,
if you're in the business school, go number one, work at an investment
bank. Goal number two,
if you can't do that or you're really crazy, go work at McKinsey. Like, that's really unique. That's really different. And scraping the bottom of the barrel at McKinsey. Exactly. So. So that was like
that was that was the goal. But I think
looking back in hindsight, like looking at my parents, even
they're both entrepreneurs, just not in the sense
that we think today right? They're not Internet
entrepreneurs. My mom was a dentist
and she's owned her own dental practice
for 20 years now. And so, you know, she's a business
owner, right? So the people I aspire to were small business owners. I mean, small is relative,
right? There were some very wealthy
people in Baltimore, but, you know, a real estate person, a dentist, a lawyer. But I was really attracted to the people
who were lawyers, but they were
really business owners. And the business
they were in happened to be law. And I interned at a law firm
senior year and the managing partner
sat me down and he's like, I'm not a lawyer, I'm a businessman. I just happen to be
in the business of law. I was like, Oh, that's
interesting for anything I like. I part of me likes those kind of things
and it's like good story. And then part of me
is like just rolling my eyes, like, all right, well, he was he was ready to drop that
nugget find I like you're probably dropped in
on a hundred young people that are out but it worked. By the way
side note on McKinsey, if you ever want to
just get absolutely wrecked in life, go and do a McKinsey interview
with no preparation that I did that it is not pretty like you get
you get asked to do like, you know,
how many golf balls fit in a school bus, how you on the fly? Don't recommend that. Recommend it. Okay. So you guys knew each other or didn't at Michigan and they knew of each other. Okay. We were in the same
fraternity. I wouldn't even say
knew of each other. Okay. We like kind of, but barely. Because you were. You were two years older. Yeah, but we really knew each other
through Tammy, Right. Which was the club
we were in. But we were the same
fraternity, but, like, barely
knew of each other, right? Like the most distant
knew of each other. Possible, I'd say. So then what? What happened actually,
Like, what is the story of how you guys ended up
coming together? Alex, You had the insight
around this business. From what I understand,
it was like, and maybe this is the PR answer that you've given
in the past or the history of like you were tutoring a lot of kids as a side hustle and making some money
doing that. You realized
that a lot of them had this need for simplified
business insights, like it was hard to keep up with everything that was going on in the world, whether
that was for interviews or things that they were
having to go out and prep for or just for life. And there wasn't anything
that was speaking their language
in a simple way. Yeah, I'll let Alex
tell this story, but first
I want you to say how busy you were a senior year
when telephone what class you were taking to keep your
time busy. Yeah, well, so I. I think I only had to take two classes
my whole senior year. And. Did you have a job lined up? Yeah. And you know, the way that it
typically works in finance is you have your junior
internship. I received a job offer for my junior after my junior internship,
which is a whole story in itself,
because I would say I've most of my life been a perpetually late
person. And I would tell you I've turned a corner
in the last year. I've actually been on time
or early most of the time, other
than a recent breakfast we had where I took a wrong
turn. Other Or how about the party
we had for someone who left Morning
Brew, the party we had for someone who left
Morning Brew Did you show up really, really late for a party? You're a little. Well, I actually, Alex does
have this bad habit of trying to drive
from Hoboken to New York City
to come to things which, like you're going to be late to half of things
that happened. Just if there's one thing that you take
from this podcast, it is that Hoboken
is wildly underrated as the sixth
borough of New York. But anyway, what I was going to say is I did get this job at Morgan Stanley
so I didn't have to re recruit my senior year, only had to take two classes, spending a lot of time
playing FIFA and NHL, living in off campus like a good frat boy. Yeah. Yeah. I was like the most non frat person in a frat. Actually, the very I actually
I can kind of see that. I feel like
Austin is way Freddy or than you
as like an overall and I wasn't very Freddy
but I was way frat here and just like a little nerdy
shiny bleh. Yeah and and I looked at
your old Facebook pictures. I definitely agree with you. And the very funny, quick story
of how I got into a fraternity at Michigan is when you do a fraternity
admission at any school, you're supposed to do
a bunch of them, like not put all of your eggs
in one basket so that you don't risk
getting rejected from the one you tried out. I didn't know these rules, so I just recruited
or they call it rushing. I just shows how much of a frat boy is. I just I just did recruiting API. Yeah. I was asked that question about fitting tennis balls and at 747 API, and the only reason
I got into API was API. I was just throwing out
the only Jewish fraternity. And the reason I got into API is because the rush chair
at the time so the person was responsible
for ultimately choosing who gets into the pledge
class. True story that that summer before he got into an accident
with my mom and everyone was fine. That's why. Yeah. Like celebrating his 21st birthday was Joy riding his dad's Mercedes and crushed as my mom was making a left
turn, crushed her driver's side door
that to use the jaws of life to get her dad like she was totally fine. But like,
it was a very scary. And so, like,
if she wasn't driving a big truck,
it could have been an issue. And the when I first met him there, I knew who he was. And I was like, by the way,
I just want to make the connection here. You just
you almost killed my mom. He just never looked at me in
the same way after you were. And you're
a shoo in for him. That's
why God for fraternity. And it explains
why I'm not frat at all. That is a pretty good story. I like that. Okay, so then how
did you guys actually meet? Yeah, so I started writing this daily newsletter
at the time, which was called The Market Corner. And again, I don't know what the actual reason I started
writing this was, but it lives somewhere between
selfishness and selflessness on the selfish side,
me feeling like I'm going to be wildly
unprepared for Morgan Stanley
when I graduate. If I only do two classes in play fee
for the whole year. And that's what you didn't
you didn't drop a name of your class,
I don't think. Well, that wasn't senior
year maybe was in your I took a class called water there just it was like David Foster
Wallace like this is water. It was just a class
about everything that it's a senior elective. It was a senior elective. What I was doing up
in Michigan, man, this Ann Arbor life. Yeah. So, so one of my two classes was water, but I took a class called Weather
and Storms at Stanford. That was one of the athlete
classes that people took. So I can't actually talk
about much shit. Honestly, that sounds
cooler than water. And so I'll tell you,
I partially started writing this
because I was worried that my brain
was going to like just melt atrophy during senior year. And it was
it was a forced function for me to keep up to date
with the markets. Then the selfless side was like helping students prepare for job interviews. They're telling me that they don't like
the Wall Street Journal. I want to write something
that's better. The true story probably live somewhere between. I've been writing this
for a little while, and the original product
was a microsoft Word template converted to a PDF attached to an email. There was no landing
page or website. If you want a daily,
I would say was daily other than days
where I missed it. Okay. And how many people were on the list
in those early days? Yeah. So the first email
went out to like 45 or 50 people and it started with like API people, people in the business school
and my family. And then I would just start getting messages
from people saying, Hey, I heard about your daily
roundup. Can you add media listserv and type in email addresses? It was just a listserv
I was managing. I got to I want to say
it was December of 2014 or January of 2015,
and I sent out an email basically saying, I want
to take this more seriously. I like I didn't
even call it a business, but I just want to take this to the next level
because there's appetite. Let me know
if you want to help out. And I sent that email
to my readers. Austin
was one of those readers. He reached out
saying he had ideas and he wanted to help. And we met in the Winter
Garden, which is like the main lobby area
of the business school, and we basically just talked for an hour about what the future of this
newsletter could look like. That was like
our first conversation. So what piqued your interest
about it? Austin Like what? Why did you get excited? Because you were,
if I recall correctly, you were younger than
at the time, but you were on a similar
finance looking path. Yeah, So I was a sophomore and I say
there were two reasons. One was high level
and one was about the so high level. By sophomore year I had started to ask them
questions about about this investment
banking path, and I was like, Hmm, I'm not sure if this is actually
what I want to do. I talked to people,
had done this banking thing, and it seemed kind of terrible, Like it seemed pretty awful, you know, a hundred
hour weeks and building Excel models and 8 to 10 years before you have
any real responsibility. And I said,
I kind of want to hedge in case
this thing doesn't work. I had a couple friends
who were more entrepreneurial minded. I started I actually listen to a podcast series that I'm sure I assume you've listened to. It was a Sam Altman class at Stanford. It's ten episodes. It's you know, Paul
Graham does one, but I had to start a startup. Yeah, I think it's called
How to Start a Startup. And I listened to that. I was like, Whoa,
this is way cooler than the whole
banking thing. Like how do I get into this? So I always had
this idea that let me hedge in case the banking thing
isn't for me. Still, 199% thought
I was going to banking. I spent the summer after
sophomore year banking, and then selfishly, I read the morning
brew thing and or the market corner
thing at the time and I was like, This is
actually pretty good. No one reads the Wall Street
Journal. You walk into the business
school, you'd walk down the stairs, there's
a stack of ten newspapers and you leave at night and that staff would
still be there. Basically don't read it. And I bought into the idea that you could actually make the business world
more engaging. Now. I think it was
a real business. No, look, I agreed
with that, professor, but there was I don't know, there was something there
about it. And also, to be honest, like people were signing up and I was reading,
but it wasn't good. Like the no PR answers. It looked horrible. Like it was terrible. I don't think a picture
that we can put up, but the original newsletter looked terrible. There was a bull in a bear like the fighting word or fighting
like it looked horrible. Yeah, I see. If I'm reading
this thing, it's written like, okay. And it
and it looks like shit. It's written okay. I mean, it was. Yeah, he was reading the entire Wall Street
Journal cover to cover and summarizing it
like 3 hours. How could it have been? But like, but
I still read it every day. And so I think it was that,
it was the classic thing where product sucks, but people still use it like, oh,
I mean, it's like Amazon. Amazon look terrible, right? It's a worse
design site that I use, yet
people, people use it. So I thought
that was interesting. The thing
that's so interesting to me when I hear the story recounted is like, I mean, we're doing a podcast called
The Crazy Ones. This is like kind of a crazy idea at the time
from a business standpoint, like today,
it's super obvious to say, like
you can start a newsletter, you can monetize it
via sponsors, you can like build
a business, you can do courses, product,
like there's so much opportunity around an email list at the time that wasn't really a thing
like the creator economy. There was no V.C. that was like, Yeah, I'm
a creator economy investor. You know,
that wasn't a thing that people
were going after. And yet you guys had this spark and decided to start doing it
and pursuing it. Part of
it sounds like it was like you had time on your hands and part of it sounds like your
alternative kind of sucked and you weren't
that excited about it. Yeah, but I think there's just, just a few things that that made it successful in the early days. One, we didn't intend for it
to be a business, and if we did and we thought about it
as a business in 2015, I think it would have
failed. We would have made long, short term decisions
to make a little money here or there,
but because of the side project, we didn't. That's an incredibly
important insight, by the way,
for all listeners. I mean, I talk about this
constantly of like whenever anyone started something, they were just pursuing it out of like pure passion, interest, excitement and joy of actually
doing it. The process on a daily basis was so amazing to them and that paradoxically, is actually what allowed it
to scale and succeed. They weren't doing it for the like,
Hey, let me monetize. When I get to 5000
customers, I'm going to build my six
figure revenue stream. Like those things
are really, really difficult because then you're
just focused on price the whole way along the way, you're not process oriented. So that's like, I think that's
a super important insight for people
to take away Totally. And we got there at 2017. We always kind of sold
the math and I mean so many people
saying, Hey, this newsletter thing is
dumb. And Alex
and I would sit down like once a week
or once a month and we'd look at the Excel model
and be like, These people are telling us
we're stupid, but we were acquiring subscribers for X, we're making Y off them. So if we can get the list from 50000 to 100000, I think the profit numbers
are going to double. And then I think
we get to 200,000 and I think there were
a couple of moments, I dunno
if you felt this way, but there were a couple
moments where I was like, either we have
the numbers, so either no one else sees this or we're complete idiots. And, and I think there were times where we second
guessed ourselves because we're like
the numbers are so clear. It's the most obvious
Excel model in the world. Cost stay the same, revenues go up, profit goes up. Yeah. I mean, I just think the best part about it is how simple of a business
it is. Yet no one understood
how simple it was. There's a few things that I would add, which is I think
the point about something not feeling like a business
from day one is such
an important thing because it reminds me of when I, I interviewed
Tim Ferriss. And one thing he had
said was like, he loves interviewing
non business people, like people
who are just like on the fringes of the Internet and society
who are like, when I talked to him, he
I said, What are you going down the rabbit
hole of right now? And he was like, archery and compound bows, animal tracking and one other thing. And but he gave me
the reason. He's like, because the people who are best point 1% in the world
at this are so genuinely obsessed
with the craft because they can't be in it
for the money because it doesn't pay well. And there's something so like amazing about
that to me is like you actually go to people who can't
be motivated by money and you find
just like kind of this unbridled passion for the thing and for the journey of it, I think that's huge. I think, you know, the other thing is you talk about this
a fair bit like you've talked about on
Twitter, is like increasing your luck surface area. And I think that was
absolutely a part of it. Like there were things
we did in the early days to increase our luck surface
area, like making it like making the decision
to write this thing. Like if I didn't make
the decision to write this thing,
I could have very easily just played FIFA and NHL or
senior year, but I didn't. I decide
to write this thing. So that increase
of the surface area, a little reaching out
to those professors or possible investors and doing it relentlessly, irrespective of
if they gave us a yes or no increased
luck surface area. But there's also
another piece where, like I think
there truly was luck. Like like I do think the fact that Austin was a sophomore, I was a senior. We were still in college. We had two years now to not have to think about
something as a business because we weren't
in our professional lives. So the trade offs of life didn't increase in cost yet. Like that was huge. And I also think we had a good thought process for why we started
with an email newsletter. It was cheap, it was opt in. It's what college students
were already doing, but we didn't have
the thought process around like, Oh, the cost base is this the revenues, this you could just scale
the margin. So let's say there was luck that came out of just
well-intentioned strategy. Have you guys seen the I think it's Charlie wine graph
the investor has done like Matrix of com like level of complexity of the business that like you know you kind of like you want to be operating
in a place where the business is like kind of complex, sorry, like boring but then like difficult to execute against and you guys kind of like over time the industry
might get sexier over time and then more competition
comes into play. But when you're operating
at the time when it's really not sexy,
I feel kind of like you're shooting fish in a barrel
a little bit. I feel like I think of
like plaid when I think of that type of business
or like notoriety. I mean, Stripe, when they
first started is like, it's super
complicated to do, like very difficult
and challenging to do, but boring like not a sexy space to go build in,
you know, in those spaces versus like space,
like space X super, super complex, but like,
really, really sexy. Totally. That like again,
at the time, just to give you a sense
of like the competitive landscape at the time, it was I don't know how long this game had
been in business. They had raised their seed
or a right. They became big
and then they started 2012. They raised a cedar
and A in 2014. So they were probably
maybe the million subs. And I also I remember
at that time us thinking like it is absolute
craziness to think we'll ever be
at this size. It has them
like they were the kind of the North Star
in terms of how big a newsletter business
could be. As we did research, we had heard about Daily
Candy, which was a newsletter
and failed. It's funny
also over the years to Successful Exit, but it's a failed post exit,
which is interesting. I think that's a
that's a theme totally. And it's
all going into that too. It's also funny too, to hear about now,
like as I've done research on other businesses
over time, how many businesses
started as newsletters and you just
wouldn't know it. They started as newsletters
to proven audience, and then they grew into
something beyond a newsletter. I mean, that's
sort of what Sam parted with, with the hustle,
right? Like it was really
it was the hustle in their early days. And then they built trends,
which was really like, I think the month like a big moneymaking
business on the and it was actually something
before the newsletter. Oh yeah, it was an event. The conference was right,
yeah, a conference board
and then LOCOG and then Kendall Baker,
who writes Axios sports. Now he was one of their
first writers. It was like
we should do a newsletter. The newsletter became huge. It was great. And then obviously Trends
became their subscription product
that's at under it. Interesting. Yeah. I want to talk a little bit about something around
growth. So we're talking a lot about like
the very early days and, you know, not being able to ever aspire to this idea of having
a million subscribers, which obviously in hindsight
seems like a small number relative
to what you have today. Every single entrepreneurial success story
that I've encountered has a common thread of these like dirty crawling
through the mud growth tactics
that hacks whatever you want to call them that they had to do in order
to like get off the ground,
to get those early customers to get
some initial traction. What is your and you can have
different ones or you could have
the same one. What is your favorite story of the dirty, nasty thing
that you had to do to get off the ground
in those early days? Yeah, So I'll give I'll give
three about doing right. Number one, we to get to let's call it a thousand and again
this goes back to Alex. It's just relentlessness. There were so many times
Alex would present something I'd be like, Dude, like, that sounds horrible. Maybe like, Yeah, but like, obviously
we're going to do it. And so the first thing
we did was we would a michigan was a big school,
big business school, econ 1 to 1 lectures 500 students, right? Accounting one to 1 to 50. This compared
to a 2000 person list. That was personal. That's a lot of people. And so Alex like let's
just go let's ask the professor
if we can have 5 minutes, just 5 minutes
at the beginning of class and let's pitch
morning brew. And so we did it. We walked in our first econ
1 to 1 class. We pitch
morning brew are pumped up. I'm nervous. I don't like
public speaking. We give the pitch and we check the website like to subscribe for like maybe to subscribers and like
we're defeated afterwards and we're like, you know, like what? What do we do? And then we figured out
like, no one's listening,
no one's paying attention. There's too much friction to go online, go to more like
it was actually morning brew, daily dot com sign up and so we said,
you know what? What if Alex pitches and Austin walks around
with like a printed out Excel document basically and basically stares
people in the eyes until you,
they give you your email. And that's what we did. So I would spend towards like door to door sale newsletter list. I like it
I would walk around the, the, the big lecture hall, 500 people and I kind of stand there, give me your email,
give me your email. And we get
and they get big on. I'm like, Did you pop
your chest up handed to him? He would look into the
give me your email. If I at the time, if I spoke
in front of 500 people, I was getting 500 emails
because I you know, there's the whole classic
thing like, you know, the number two fear in life
is a public speaking. And number
one is, is or number one is public speaking to death
like you rather be in the in the casket than speaking at the eulogy that was me at the time. And so I was like, well,
I'm going to do this. I need those emails. And then afterwards, there was no we didn't have
like a way to scan them. So we would put
manually type in 500 emails. I turn the floor in the back
of the lecture hall. So that was number one. That was like zero. And by the way,
the amount of time, like we've spent hundreds
of hours debating
whether eyes were L's because like,
it was all here. Yeah. So like we would
basically have to put it in multiple permutations
of people's emails because we didn't know
what certain letters were rather than just scrapping
the ones that were unclear. You actually were writing three
or four that he needed to. Then two of them would
bounce, one would work. Yeah. So that's
that's the 0 to 1000, right? We can, we can go
three stages. Okay. Then let's call it, you know, 50000 to 200000 or 50,000. 250,000. We, we spend a lot of time
talking about the referral program. So I'll, I'll leave that. And if you want to
talk about it, we can. But the other unique insight
we had is we really started
tracking the opens of readers
by source and what sources would open the most. And we found that when we did cross promotions with other newsletters, it was really successful. Those people engage more
and it makes sense, right? There are people who are
just newsletter people just like what you want
to promote a podcast, You do it on other podcasts,
like mediums for like mediums. So you start buying ads, one other newsletters, and we were like,
You know what? There aren't enough
newsletters to buy ads on. What if we help other newsletter companies
build up their ad business? And so we kind of came in and we acted as like sales consultant for two or three companies,
and in exchange we buy their first,
you know, months of ads. And we grew from let's
call it 50 or 100 to 250 with a ton of really, really high quality subscribers from other newsletters
that stuck around. And that was huge for us. Any others that jump out to monitors
that cover for you? So there's two more. I love the Excel
spreadsheet. One that's just so good. I don't know why it is, but it's like those things still to this day
are the things that I love doing most, like typing in hand emails that like you do
a lot of that these days. Just find yeah,
finding the most kind of creative, scrappy ways to acquire audience. I don't know why it is,
but I just love the feeling of it. I asked people recently,
I asked every time I was running
into like an entrepreneur that had a success story,
I would ask them like, What is your favorite thing about
the entrepreneurial journey? Like anchor Nagpaul just started this new company and he's
getting back into it. He that dude has made
a ton of money, right? Like he already
had a massive success story. And I asked him like, Why are you
getting back into this? Why are you doing this
again? And he said,
I love the feeling of that like, aha moment
where I feel like I figured something out
that no one else knows and you're
hitting on the same thing. It's like you figure out
this little cheat code that for some reason
it just works and you're able to go
and exploit it. It's a very addictive
feeling. And I would say there's two other things
that come to mind. One, which we definitely do not do
today, a morning brew, because I think
the legality is borderline, but in the early days for, I would say, both growing our list as well for acquiring advertisers,
I remember I don't know how many years
it was. Austin I would get an email every time
there was a new subscriber. It was like that was like
the definition. It was like the Shopify
teaching thing. It was that
that's exactly what it was. And we'd also get it
when people had certain referral landmarks
like five, ten, 25. And what we would do,
especially as we were building up
Morning Brews referral program
and ambassador program, which became big
at looking for advertisers, is we would go through at the end of the day, like I think the kind of the marketing strategy that continues to shape our thinking in everything is like this hub
and spoke model. It's your hub are like who are the people who give you access with People are channels that give you access to a bunch of the right people. So if you can get to them, it's a very leveraged act of acquiring
more people, right? So like a lecture
with 500 people, very leveraged action of the lecture was the hub and one of the other ways to think about it was if we could turn our newsletter subscribers into champions in some way, they're a hub
for other things. And so in the early days, a lot of our ambassadors came from us literally
pouring through our list, filtering by domain
names of certain schools. We wanted to have a presence at reaching out
to those students and asking them if they wanted
to be ambassadors. Same thing
on the advertising side. A lot of the initial
advertisers we got, we would look at what are companies
that we want to work with who are what we would call chronic newsletter
advertisers. They they've advertised in
ten other newsletters. We'd look at our list. Who has the domain from
at the time? Brooklinen Kasper ET cetera. Look up all the data,
see exactly when we look up that person
on LinkedIn, if they worked
in a marketing function, we would hit them up
and we knew that we wouldn't have to convince them
of what morning Brew was. So I would say
that was a big one. The second one was, I think, just the evolution of our college
ambassador program was really interesting because at the time no media companies were thinking about referral programs
or ambassador programs. The only other one that did
was the skim, but for whatever reason, they didn't really publicize
like what I thought was a really smart marketing strategy. And so we just we tinkered over semesters of the best way to do a college and program. So the first time we did it,
we had ten ambassadors. We were super stringent who had the resumes, had an interview process, and we're like,
we're going to pick the the most impressive people on college campuses who's like the student body
president in like five different clubs
because they have access to all of those hubs
I just spoke about. That was the wrong strategy because all of those people already
have spread themselves so thin when they become an ambassador
for morning brew, they don't have the time
to dedicate to it. Then the second semester
we were like, We're going to go
and swing the pendulum in the exact
opposite direction. We're going
to open the floodgates. So we had at 1.300
ambassadors from 200 schools. We said, we're going
to automate the beginning of the program
as much as possible. So we're going to have
an automated email sent to people saying Apply
to the ambassador program. And automated emails
are going to say, We've received
your applications. It's very selective. We're going to talk
about it, get back to you and automated email that says you've been accepted
to the program, whereas
everyone was accepted. It wasn't like a 5%
acceptance rate. And only when you got to say like 25 referrals did you actually get human
interaction. Austin Right. And so it's just fine to like just iterate on this program over years. How did you actually scale voice like that? That's one of the things
that I find most interesting and incredible
about what you guys did in that you went from, you know, the single email and presumably
that was still you guys
writing that in the very early days
it started to grow and obviously
it has now branched into a whole
ton of different factors in a whole ton of different
emails and products
and different things. One of the biggest challenges of doing
that is the Morning Brew was so successful
because it had such a unique voice
and it really felt like a person writing it to you That was funny and snarky and pithy and also delivered really poignant
business insights. How did you actually
scale that? Because that seems like a really
challenging thing to do. Yeah, I mean, it's still something
we think about today, right? What we're trying
figure out now is how do we scale our voice
and our tone to multimedia,
to podcasting, to video content? I'm not sure, you know, we don't do a ten out of ten
job right now. We're still working on that. But in the early days, it was a real question
we had. We sat down with the first,
you know, the team of the first eight of us,
and we said, hey, what do we want to do next? We got to more newsletters because we thought
was a good business model. But then we sat down and
we had that conversation. We were like, But what actually matters
in these newsletters? Like,
let's build a criteria, Let's build a rubric, right? Let's say we find a writer
who like the first one we were launching
or the second was retail. And we said, okay, what if we have someone who's a seven out of ten in retail knowledge, an eight out of ten writing,
but a two out of ten Morning Birds voice,
Would we hire them? And the answer was like, No. But we did get to a point. We're like, okay, if the daily newsletters
at ten out of ten, what are we willing to
accept? Right? Because you're
not going to find someone who is a ten out of ten or retail content. A ten owl, ten on business knowledge, right? Ten or ten
on editorial ability and a ten out of ten on tone. And so we had to understand where were we willing to like acquiesce? Where were we willing to
give up something? Yeah, it's like you had
multiple burners and they all have like kind
of like a dimmer switch. And you need to figure out
what the optimal thing is across all of them
in order to scale. Exactly. And the second thing is, we were in person. We were a tight knit
community, and our managing editor
Neil, is unbelievable. He is so good and he did such a good job
training people and making that voice
ubiquitous. And so is he still here? Yeah, he's you know,
I knew him growing up. I did know that
because he message went to a bunch
of like Jewish holidays growing up together
like my mom when she came over from
India, was like her host family in college was like his grandparents
his family. So so you probably don't
know this, but Neil Slack me,
I can look it up later. Neil slapped me,
I think when you had like 600 Twitter followers being like, Hey, this guy, he's pretty interesting. You should check him out. I think he DM'd you. Maybe he's writing some good content and at the time that was what, 2020
when you started. Yeah, 2020. So yeah, I mean for us to
even think about how we're partnering with Creator,
that was a thought. So it's like, like it's
cool, but I'll let it go. You guys both ignored
me, by the way. I'm just going
to call him out right here publicly like I've DM'd both of these guys back when I think I had like
a couple thousand followers on Twitter
in the early days. These guys were both already
like semi-famous, and I was just like,
Hey guys, you know, eager
like, want to do it? Wanted to be friends
and wanted to like, talk about what
they were doing. Both ignored me just to just to say it. And I think, look how far we've come. I was going to say
we're we're going to have to go back to the tape and actually find
if this is the case. Oh, I know it is,
because actually I've seen this
I think I've brought it up. I think I've brought it up. It's not just,
you know, almost the end. So, yeah, that
which is fair. I totally understand it
now, by the way, now that I'm in a different and a different position,
it's very hard to respond. By the way, one last thing
I just want to say on voice. So one thing about Neil, which I can't believe he didn't
mention, is the thing
that sealed the deal of why we had done so in the early days. I would say none of our hires were journalists, and we've hired a more,
let's call it like traditional journalist, journalistically trained writers over time, as we've gotten a sense of kind of what we're looking for. But in the early days,
we didn't hire any journalists,
I think largely because we couldn't
afford them, largely because we didn't
think journalists want to come to morning brew
because there's a very like the investment
banking path, there's a very clear path of, if you go to journalism,
what you ultimately want to do. And so
all of our initial hires were not writers
by training. So like Neil took
the example he wrote for Maryland's
newspaper that was the only writing
he had ever done. But you just had a knack
for it. And to this day, a very simple prompt writing prompt is like the best proxy
for someone getting hired at the Brew. You take a big business news story
from last few days in 150 or 250 words. You summarize this story in a way that connects with the audience
through voice. Within two sentences. We know whether you're going
to be the person or not, and with Neil, what actually
sealed the deal with him in his interview
process was two things. Well, first of all, I'll say we actually fucked up and didn't
hire him at first. We gave an offer
to someone else. Someone rejected that offer that we came back to Neil and that intimacy going to going to kill you
for telling this story. By the way, he didn't. He knows this. But I would say
that's like one of the big, bigger mistakes we made is if he wasn't available, the trajectory of
the business would be so different. But with him,
there are two things that stood out
in the interview process. One, I asked him to teach me something that he's super passionate about,
doesn't have to be our business
at all, and he's a US history junkie and he basically taught me about
the battle of Ticonderoga for like 30 minutes. And to me, the amount of detail and nuance he understood, I was like fascinated
by the second thing. Really what sealed
the deal is Neil's and a cappella singer, and he's going to absolutely
kill me. He's going to kill you
for telling this story. Is there was a YouTube video like we we research
all of the hires we make. And I
looked him up on YouTube and there was a video of him performing
with his a cappella group at the college in college. And the song was called
Chop It Off, and it was a song
about circumcision. And he had written
all the lyrics of it and it was so incredibly
clever. I was like,
This is how we know he has the voice. And so, yeah, Neil, can we still look that
video up? And I said, Yeah, yeah, chop it up, Yeah, yeah, chop it off, put it in the show,
top it off. Neil Fry It's,
it's incredible. He'll make it
if you play it. And the final thing
I'll just say that we did with a
from a voice perspective and this is why I love
the early days of business are so intuitive, right? You don't know naturally
all these frameworks, especially if you're
a first time founder, you just do things
that you think make sense. We a one pager that defined the morning brief voice as a person. So literally be like, Our voice is starhill. He is 30 something
years old, living outside
in New York City. He will drink once or twice a week. His preferred
drink is whiskey. Other times
he'll be reading ten KS or watching a TED talk and he loves spending time
with family. And like in excruciating
detail, we would describe
that person, which I think like brand
or marketing people would call it
like building personas. We didn't know that. It was just like, How do we have a proxy
for making decisions? When we write a newsletter,
we're adding editing, whether the Morning Brew Voice
would say this or not. And so you mentioned that
one of your biggest mistakes kind of jokingly was was not hiring
Neil immediately. What are the other ones
that jump out to you? Like what are the worst? I mean, like actually
bad ones, not the like, oh, yeah. My biggest weakness
is I'm to attention, you know, too much attention
to detail. Like don't give me the fake
interview, answer the the real ones. Like what
are the big mistakes that you guys made along
the way? This also may feel
a little PR ish, so you can feel free
to push back on the CEO, but it really is
all about hiring. I'll get specific. It's all hiring, right? And there's two types of mis hiring and I think people usually think about the
first that I'll give you, but it's the second
that really kills you. The first is
you just mess up. You hire a senior exec,
you know, within 4 to 6 months
of the wrong person, hopefully earlier, it takes a month to fire
them, used to replace them. And next thing you know,
you've lost a year because you to recruit them. That sucks. But what's even worse is you hire someone who the company outgrows too fast, right? And so they're good. They're really good
and they're going to thrive somewhere else. But you need a C Blanco, Right? You need a chief C-suite officer and you hire
an SVP or an EVP. And that's that's difficult because what happens is they then after four, six,
eight months, when the company passes
them, they then go and they say, Oh shit, I now feel the pressure because
this is the biggest company I've ever run content sales marketing for. So what do I do? I'm going to hire
a bunch of people below me to help me
solve that problem. But those people, yeah, those people are too. JR Because you know this person
is too junior, right? Maybe the person below them
should be at their level. And so next thing you, you have this bloated org of a lot of people who might be great, but it's just not the right team
for where you are. And that I think
we've got a couple of times and you may not find
that out for two or three years, right? Like you can really take
a long time to unwind that. And I think that's,
by the way, what we've seen over
the last couple of years is that across the tech
world. Yeah, exactly. And venture
and venture backed companies you think they hired
so quickly, this is a problem that's so pervasive
at these companies that it will just crush
a company. Yeah, it was just, you know,
when when money's free, hiring and marketing dollars are like the easiest things
to deploy. You can just go hire
endlessly and give people, you know, give, give, like SVP the right to hire
and build their entire org. Totally. And it's not that
these people, these founders are bad,
These are great founders. But you know,
there's the saying it's impossible or it's very hard to like feel the this to be able to fathom what compounding is like
even when when you think
about compounding you can't actually think
about compounding. Right. Like it's impossible because that's
what compounding is. Right. And so it's like, you know,
if you're going to grow three extra
the next two years, I can conceptually know
what three X is, right? I can look at an Excel
spreadsheet. I can even build
the word chart. But can you actually feel
what compounding is and can you know who
the right exec is for? A company
went to nine X bigger and the answer
for definitely first nine founders, but probably even
second time founders is like, no, that's really, really hard. Alex Morse Mistake. I actually think probably the the biggest and I know we're going to get to this
but I think you know, I've spent so much time
just like reflecting on the business
and on the last year years. I think
the biggest mistake was probably actually staying in the CEO role too long. I think, you know,
I've spent a ton of time reflecting on the things
I really enjoy doing, the things I don't
enjoy doing, the things I'm really good at,
the things I'm not good at. And I think, you know, there was a lot going on in let's call
it 20 starting in 2019. But I would say the biggest thing
that happened was like we made this big
that I would say the most important shift
that you make as a business when you go from kind of product or product to company. And I vividly remember this conversation with Austin where and this is
another sub mistake, but it was in
we work, we were we were still operating
in this mode of just get the newsletter out,
just get our next advertiser for the next day or next week, Just find that
next subscriber. Everything was reactive and not proactively thinking about who do we want to be
three months from now, six months from now,
12 months from now. And I remember Austin, I talked about how
do we get more proactive? And then he had one of our early investors is the founder
of the Snuggie. And he he recommended you
the book, right? Yeah. Yeah. And coincidentally,
Adam Ryan also had been reading
at the same time. Oh, really? Yeah. And so he had recommended
Austin, this book called Traction, which is by Geno Whitman. It's like want
you know, there's now this set group of like business planning frameworks out
there are scaling up this one's iOS and Austin read it and you know I would say
this is kind of like one of the most
exciting, excited moments
in the journey I've seen Austin,
where he was like, This is what we have to do
to be proactive because it really sets up
like your vision, right? People Right. Seeds ten year, five year, three year, one year
and quarterly goals like it's the roadmap
for planning your business. And he told me
you have to read this And I remember I didn't read it
and he had asked me and I was like,
I didn't read it. And he it's probably like the one time or one a few times in kind of the whole journey
that I would say it felt like Austin
was actually mad at me because he was like, Dude, how can you read this? This is like
the most important thing that we have to do
to be able to plan our business
moving forward. So I remember the next day I spent the entire day and we were just reading
this book cover to cover. And I would say
what happened there is that was kind
of the turning point of us getting more proactive
about the business. And I think
in a lot of ways, Austin taking on the
responsibilities of the CEO of the company because I think in
a lot of ways by following that process, it it forces you to think strategically about
what is the plan for the business
moving forward. Forces you to think about
who is your leadership team and who are you hiring into. Your leadership team forces
you to set quarterly goals, run leadership meetings, etc. And I think after that point, there was I kind of knew it in like my heart of hearts that what I was spending
my time on was largely the stuff that
I was still energized by. So like new products, like our new podcast, our new newsletters, new things
like our education business. But what I wasn't
spending my time on or not actually energized by was in a lot of ways what the job was of the CEO. As you go into company
building and not product building. And I would say it, it
largely led to ultimately Austin having to have
very difficult conversations about him
moving from the CEO role into the CEO
role, moving me, moving from the CEO
to the chairman role,
I think largely because I didn't kind of acknowledge this truth or all earlier and because I think I had always kind of had this perception in building a business that you have to be
the CEO forever, because a lot of who my role models were for
such a long time, whether it's Bezos or Gates, like any of these people, they start the business and they run it
until it goes public. Basically, they're the
captain of the ship forever. And I think that kind of ego
held me from actually doing what I think
was right, actually, for everyone, for me, for Austin,
for the business. So I know
we're running up here against the end of time. I have one question
that I really do want to ask you
as both on a personal level that I think will resonate
with a lot of folks out there and founders, builders, etc.. You ended up selling
at least a portion of morning brew. I know
you guys are still owners to Business Insider in 2020. Yes, October of 2020. Okay. In that transaction, both of you guys
made a lot of money. You had presumably been
paying yourself salaries for a while
and had been doing well because the business
was doing well and you owned close to 100%, 90 plus percent of the business
at the time. You made a lot of money
in this transaction. Are you happier? Do you feel like,
you know, creating tens of millions of dollars
of personal wealth has made you a happier person on a daily basis? Yeah, I can start. So I was
I was reading a book or an excerpt from a book that Will Smith wrote, and he had this quote
that I think it wasn't about money,
but I think it it translates so well. And the quote was about fame and it was getting something
to the effect of getting famous
is amazing. It's like absolutely
incredible. Being famous is cool. It's nice, but losing fame is horrible. And I think the same thing
is true about money, right? Am I happier? I think 100%. Like I think I am absolutely happier
because I have more money. And I think there's like that whole $70,000 seller study that people are happier
saying, I've got $70,000. I don't think that's true. I think I am happier. But I think there are also a lot of things that make me not happy. Right. And so, like on the net,
I am happier. But there are also
tons of things like, for example, when you have money,
it's like the money is step
wise, right? And so making an incremental 5% on net worth means nothing to me. Right? And so that motivation
just changes. Right? And the drive is
just different. Right? And so net net, I'm happier. But the risk reward profile of everything
just changes. It just complicates
everything and just makes things
more difficult. So I think I'm happier. But again, like I lose a dollar,
I'm like, Oh, that sucks, right? Know, one small thing is
I used to love to, like, go to a casino
casino and gamble, and now I'll probably never
gamble again in my life. Same way
I can't ever gamble. Yeah. And what's funny is when I. When I before I sold money, I would love nothing more than to go play three, 3 hours of blackjack for a couple of hundred
bucks right now. Like I betting $300, like, isn't exciting to me, but I would never bet something that I hate
losing it. I hate it. And so it just like, you know, having money change my relationship
with money, it's made me happier,
but it just made it very awkward.
It's like that. I personally haven't
spent enough time thinking about
internalizing like. Like what makes me happy. Now I have a certain threshold of money. Alex Yeah, I would say one of the functions of moving into the chairman
role and going from spending a ton of time in the business
to less time in the business is it left me with time. So I spend probably too much time thinking about this and I would say a few things. I feel incredibly fortunate to be in the position
that I'm in because I would say
the thing that that kind of add one to the scoreboard for money is to not have to feel finding financial anxiety ever again in my life unless I royally fuck
something up is just an amazing blessing. I would say after our the deal, and especially after
moving out of the CEO role because like these are two
big moments. They happen relatively
close to each other. Deal was October of 2020 moved out of the the role in April of 2021. My happiness actually went down a lot. And it went down because one I realized I, I had money anxiety in life actually not tied to my net
worth. Like I still have money
anxiety today, even though it isn't
necessarily rational. I think it's potentially
because we didn't talk about money growing up, potentially
to generational thing, a cultural thing,
I don't know. But so
I didn't have the crutch of like money going to remove my money
anxiety. So it's now
something I have to work on irrespective of it, I would say. The second thing is I was absolutely motivated in some portion by money in the morning
through journey because it goes back
to, you know, how I wanted to feel like
there's only cash going out of the Liberman
family and coming in. I'm going to do everything
possible to make that reality better. Now that that's a reality, that can't
be part of my motivator. I would say also, I got very just afraid of lose it,
like losing any money or doing any things, anything that
jeopardized it. So I would say,
like I've realized actually in this how risk averse I am. The intense paranoia,
by the way, is a staple of highly successful
and highly wealthy people. There's this weird paranoia that a lot of really
successful people have about losing
it all, like they think
they're going to end up totally broke,
which is almost impossible if you unless
you royally screw something. Yeah, well,
I would say the big reason for me actually was because after moving out of the CEO
role for, I would say a period of 4 to 6 months, I was like very much not this existential or like cliche about like,
who am I? Who am I outside of
morning brew? I was not self loving at all
to myself. I question
what I was actually good at. So I think
a lot of that money anxiety was tied to me
being like, I don't know
if I'm ever going be able to create
something of value again, so I better not screw
this up and I better protect this
with my life because I don't know
if I'm going to bring anything else in that will add
on top of this, I think the greatest thing that it has done to increase
my happiness is give me
the freedom of time that I truly have the ability, like I don't set an alarm in the morning. My body just wakes me up like I can choose what to do with my time, both in morning brew and outside of morning brew. And I see,
you know, for example, like how hard
those around me work in 9 to 5 jobs. And it's I just feel very grateful that I can choose
what to do with my time. And I know that's
a cliche also, but that is
the number one thing. Sounds like I made
the wrong decision here. Sounds that sounds pretty good. Well, look, I really appreciate all the honesty and candor. And personally, I feel like
I've learned a lot from you guys, from the
from the conversation, getting to dig
into some of the details, especially around those,
like early growth stories
that I absolutely love. So thank you
so much for the honesty and thanks for having me to to moderate this. Thanks for doing this, man. And we're going to have to
have you on a TKO episode in the future to go through your whole journey,
which has been spectacular. I'd love to do it. I'd love to do I'll come pick you on the book,
which is round one. Yes. Yes. You got to do it. And for everyone,
all you misfits out there who listen to this episode
of The Crazy Ones, Thank you, as always, for listening
to watching the show. I hope you enjoyed this. A little bit of a change up
and you can expect next week
back to normal programing. And as always, say what up? Introduce yourselves. Give us ideas for the show at the crazy ones
at morning Broadcom. Thanks for listening,
everyone. Thank you guys
so much for watching this episode
of The Crazy Ones. If you're an entrepreneur
or a builder and want more great startup
content, make sure to subscribe
on our YouTube channel or wherever
you get your podcasts.
